 It is grown through out the country, mainly in the plains but flourishes equally well at higher altitude in the plateaus of the hills. It is grown in commercial scale in Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. 250 Tribulus terrestris Puncture vine H- Gokhru B-Gakhrra O- Gakhrra M-Sarala G-Beta Gokhru Tel-Chinni pallere T-Nerumji Mal-Nerumji Kan-Sammaneggilu P-Lotak Spiny fruits are liable to cause injury to the stomach in animals. The alkaloid, harman, has been reported from the herb and harmine from the seed.The plants contain saponin. The fruits are credited with diuretic and tonic properties and are used for the treatment of calculous affections. The leaves possess stomachache properties. a paste prepared from it is given for treatment of stones in the bladder. The root is credited with aperients and tonic properties. Variable, prostrate annual upto 90cm in length, commonly found through out India, upto an altitude of 5400m. The flowers are pale- yellow to yellow. The herb is a common weed and its flowers and fruits are available almost throughout the year. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 385 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 251 Trichodesma indicum - H-Chhota kulpha B-Chotokupa MChhota phulva G- Undha phull Tel- Guvva gutti T-Kazhuthaithu mbai Kan-Katletumbe soppu O-Hetamumdia The herb is credited with emollient and diuretic properties and is used for making emollient poultices.It is prescribed by the ayurvedic physician for the expulsion of dead foetus. The root is pounded and made into paste for application on the swelling, particularly of the joints. The root is also used for the treatment of dysentery and fever. The flowers are used as as a sudorific and pectoral. Hispid, erect or diffuse annual herb, found as a weed through out the greater parts of India, ascending to an altitude of 1500m in Himalayas. Flowers are pale-blue, changing to pink or white, single, on drooping axillary stalks. 252 Trigonella foenum graecum Fenugreek H-Methi B-Methi M-Methi G-Methi Tel-Mentikoora T-Vendayam Kan-Menthya Mal-Uluva P-Methi Alkaloid trigonelline is present in the seed. Saponin from the leaves yield diosgenin and gitogenin. The disogenin is the major constituent of the leaves. The plant possesses insect repellent properties. The seeds are aromatic, carminative, tonic and galactagogue. They are used externally in poultices for boils, abscesses and ulcer, and internally as emolient for inflammation of the intestinal tract. They find application also in veterinary medicines, and are used in paultices, ointments and plasters, and form a constituent of ‘condition powders’, for cattle, horses and sheep. The aquous extract of seeds shows antibiotic activities against Micrococus pyogenes var.aureus.