 *Corresponding author’s e-mail: agri_anil@rediffmail.com species due to globalization and therefore need to strengthen quarantine stations, agricultural Indian Farming 29 April 2023 Sugarcane: Boom crop for carbon sequestration Rajan Bhatt*, Krishan K Verma and Debjyoti Majumder Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, Punjab 144 601 Soils, especially specifically managed agricultural soils can be a large low-cost source of greenhouse gases (GHGs) with extra potential advantages to agricultural output. Most horticultural soil experts and agronomists feel that, most agricultural soils can store lot of carbon and even a slight increase in carbon stocks across large home-stead land regions may result in important GHGs reductions. Sugarcane is one of the crop that can cope with rising carbon dioxide (CO2) levels due to its natural advantages. Some of the major natural endowments in relation to growing CO2 concentrations in the atmosphere include a very low carbon dioxide compensation point and the unique property of sequestering carbon in the form of phytoliths or plant stone. The crop has been given two significant abilities namely, low compensation point (varying between 0–10 ppm) and carbon sequestering capacity (181 kg C sequestered/ha year), which assists in regulating the effect of rising CO2 concentration on the crop. Keywords: Carbon sequestration, Greenhouse gas, Plantstone carbon, Sugarcane T HE world today may be seriously concerned about carbon control. Several meetings have been planned on this topic, from Stockholm to the Kyoto protocol. There are 375 ppm of carbon atoms in the atmosphere at the moment. Calculation shows that if carbon emissions continue to rise at their current rate and proactive measures are not taken, the level of carbon in the atmosphere might reach 800– 1000 ppm by the end of the century, which could be disastrous for all of the world’s living things. In the form of soil organic carbon, soil serves as a significant sink for carbon storage. Scientists studying sugarcane are also very concerned about this type of carbon since studies show that intense farming causes the soil’s potential productivity to decline because the soil’s organic carbon is degrading. This puts sustainable farming at risk. Sugarcane (Saccharum officinarum L.) cultivation leaves behind around 20 tonnes/ha of biomass residue after harvest Indian Farming 73 (04): 29-32; April 2023 and processing. Sugarcane plants provide the most soil organic carbon, either through the decomposition of aerial plant parts or by the breakdown of underground plant parts such as, roots in the form of root respiration, root exudates and root death. Various factors including plant age, diverse biotic and abiotic difficulties, etc influence the rate of loss, with around 40% of the photosynthates generated inside plant parts being lost through the root system into the rhizosphere.