 Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3507 Preparation of rokshi beer 3508 Preparation of rice beer the pipe. Lukewarm water may be poured gradually till the flavour is retained. The left-over material is used for feeding the pigs and cows. It is very useful for fast growth of pigs. It is consumed daily, just before and after the food, as a healthy tonic. A few spoonfuls of beer are given to the children as a cure of cold and cough. Keywords: beer, tchang, jhar, marcha, tongba, bhib, bibsing, elmah, kodo, rice, maize Many villagers of Sikkim have developed a technology of preparation of rokshi as a traditional drink that is a favourite in Sikkim state. In preparation of rokshi, Canna edulis (phultaral) and Zea mays (maize) are used. The starchy roots of Canna are washed thoroughly with water and cut into thin slices, which are mixed with corn (Zea mays) powder in the ratio of 6: 1 w/w. About 5 g yeast (marcha) is mixed thoroughly to 1 kg of this mixture. The mixture is kept air-tight inside a polythene bag or wrapped with leaves of banana or arecanut. The process of temporization and condensation is carried out in a specially designed indigenous apparatus. Keywords: rokshi, phultaral, marcha, Canna, maize, beer Villagers of Majai and Bholaganj Bazar area, of East Khasi hills in Meghalaya prepare beer of rice and consume it at certain special occasions. To prepare yeast, rice is ground to powder form, and the leaves of jackfruit and local fern leaves are mixed with it. Old yeast is also added to this mixture, which is prepared in round bowls. For preparation of beer, Dr Dheeraj Singh, Assistant Professor (Pomology) and Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 761 102 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Content FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3509 Fenny preparation 3510 Vegetable of sapu badia local rice is taken in certain amount, boiled and cooled. Prepared yeast and some water are mixed with this cooled rice, and it is kept in a vessel by covering with gunny bag and allowed to ferment. After 3-4 days beer is ready, and it is drained out from the vessel. It is very nutritious and beneficial for health. Keywords: rice beer, yeast, jackfruit, fern, gunny bag, fermentation After cashew seed is removed, ripe cashew fruit is taken and smashed. The white watery juice is collected and stored in a barrel for 1 week to undergo fermentation. After fermentation, solution is passed through the process of distillation. Final product is called fenny which is ready for consumption.