 1 3 4 5 6 7 2 Crop Management icar annual report 2022-23 97 ICAR-NBAIR on optimizing the production and release protocols organized trainer’s training programmes for officials of State Agricultural Universities, State Horticulture Departments and Krishi Vigyan Kendras in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. On obtaining the field release permit, the first field release programme of the parasitoids and its distribution to the cassava farmers have been organized by ICAR-NBAIR at Yethapur, Salem district of Tamil Nadu on 7 March, 2022. About 300 tapioca farmers from 6 districts of Tamil Nadu attended the event. The second release cum awareness programme by ICAR-NBAIR was conducted at KVK, Namakkal, Tamil Nadu on 23 April, 2022. In continuance, ICAR-NBAIR organized the third farmers training cum awareness programme on classical biological control of cassava mealybug on 23 September, 2022 in Erode district of Tamil Nadu. More than 200 tapioca-growing farmers attended and benefitted. Common bruchid species harbouring edible stored legumes across India: The survey was conducted to understand the infestation, distribution and diversity indices of common bruchid species infesting edible stored legumes in India. A total of 81 infested stored grain samples representing 13 pulses and 1 oilseed crops were surveyed from 74 locations spread across 24 states. Five bruchid species were identified, infesting samples were confirmed through morphological and molecular approaches. Three of which were Callosobruchus species found cosmopolitan on maximum samples, locations and crops. Among Callosobruchus species, C. analis was distributed on 50% of the samples and locations, followed by C. maculatus and C. chinensis. Despite C. analis being present in the majority of samples, C. maculatus was the most abundant and dominant species as far the density of the beetles were concerned. Six of the 24 states recorded all 3 Callosobruchus species, 8 states recorded any 2 of the 3, and the other 10 states recorded any 1 of the 3 Callosobruchus species. C. analis and C. chinensis were abundant in 4 of the 6 regions, while C. chinensis in north-east region. Microbe-based technologies for control of Erysiphe necator causing powdery mildew disease in grapes (Vitis vinifera): The microbe-based technologies, i.e. Eco-pesticide (a liquid bioformulation of Pseudomonas fluorescens PF-08), Bio-Pulse (a talc-based bioformulation of Trichoderma asperellum UBSTH-501 and Bacillus amyloliquefaciens B-16), and Bio-Care 24 (a liquid bioformulation of Bacillus subtilis RP-24) developed at ICAR-NBAIM, Mau were evaluated against grape powdery mildew and integrated with a safer fungicide (sulfur) to achieve better disease control under organic systems of viticulture. These technologies were evaluated at 4 different locations, viz. the vineyards of ICAR-NRCG, Rajya Draksha Bagayatdar Sangh (MRDBS), and 2 farmers’ fields at Narayangaon and Junnar in the Pune district of Maharashtra.