 When given internally cures diarrhoea, dysentry and lithiasis. Parabia et al. (2000) 218 Medicinal use of Bastard teak Seed, flower, stem bark leaf and gum are the medicinally valuable parts. Contains glucosides, kenotannic gallic acid and essential oils which act as astringent antihelmenthentic aphrodisiac and diuretic. Stem bark heals pthisis and haemorrage, controls ringworm, conjusted and septic wounds, diarrohea, dysentry. Parabia et al. (2000) 219 Medicinal uses of Derris trifoliata, D.uliginosa Root, bark of banda (Derris trifdiata) contain lipeol, taraxerol, beta-sitosterol, scandenin, coumarin, resins, alkaloids, rotenone, saponin which are used as alterative, insecticide, cathartic, dysmenorrhoea, astrigent, narcotic,for wounds, rheumatism, menstrual troubles, remedy for consumption, asthma, mania and as a substitute for betelnut. Parabia et al. (2000) 220 Medicinal uses of Dendrocalamus strictus The leaf and other parts of kaban (Dendrocalamus strictus) which contain silicious matter are used as astrigent, ecbolics to animals. Parabia et al. (2000) 221 Medicinal uses of Datura metel, D.alba, D.fastuosa Leaf, root, fruit and ripe seed of sadah datura (Datura metel) contain alkaloids, hyoscamine, hyocine, atropine, scopalamine, allantoin, vitamin-C, are used for insanity, fever with catarrh and cerebral complication and fruit to get animal in to heat, prolapse of uterus/vagina. Parabia et al. (2000) 221 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 222 Medicinal uses of Dalbergia sissoo Stem bark, root, leaf, mucilage of sisam (Dabergia sissoo) which contain tannin, dalberginone, dalbergin, allylphenol of latitontype, 5,7,4-trihydroxy-s-methoxyisoflorone and are used for leprosy, boils, eruptions to allay vomiting, oil is used for cutaneous afflictions. Mucilage of leaves mixed with sweet oil is applied in excoriations. Parabia et al. (2000) 223 Medicinal uses of Cyperus rotundus Tubers of motha mutha (Cyperus rotundus) have essential oils, myristic and stearic acid, unstable alkaloid, b- seilinne, cyperenone and are used as diuretic, emmenagogue, anthelmintic, stimulant, tranquilizer, antipyretic. Parabia et al. (2000) 224 Medicinal uses of bergia Plant and leaf of bergia odorata are the medicinally valuable parts containing tannin used in cleaning teeth and are applied to broken bones. Poultice prepared from leaf heals sores and plant paste heals urticaria and allergic sores. Parabia et al. (2000) 225 Medicinal use of opthalmic barberry Root, stem bark, wood, stem of darhald/rasaut (Berberis aristata) are the useful parts containing tree alkaloid named berberine used as alterative, tonic and antiperiodic. Stem bark and root cures skin diseases, jaundice, dysentery, colic, nervous diseases, sores, copious discharge from womb, trachoma virus and amoebiasis. Parabia et al.