 Number of training programmes have been organised for the officials of ATARIs and associated KVKs and all the registered Scientists were trained for efficient operation and management of services. The services of Kisan-Sarathi for the farmers is available through an IVR based calling system via toll free numbers 1800-123-2175 and a short number 14,426. Once a registered farmer calls to any of these numbers, his call is directly gets connected to one of the agricultural scientists of associated KVK of his locality. Through this system they can mutually talk in their respective local language to resolve any issue related to agriculture or farming. All the calls made into the system are recorded in the MIS of Kisan-Sarathi and are available for future reference. Till date, more than 46 lakh farmers have been registered with Kisan-Sarathi from more than 1,35,000 villages from all across country. Apart from receiving more than one lakh calls from the farmers, more than 10 crore advisories in the form of SMS has also been sent to the registered farmers by Scientists of KVK via Kisan-Sarathi Platform. ICAR-Network Program on Precision Agriculture (NePPA): The ICAR-Network Program on Precision Agriculture was initiated by the Council initially with 16 ICAR Research Institutes with IARI as Lead. The program is focused on exploring potential applications of recent developments on technologies related to sensor, IoTs, Drone and ICTs for precision smart agriculture. The major objectives span its scope over soil fertility, crop health, livestock, post- harvest operations, aquaculture and upscaling these using advanced technologies like drones, Information, Communication and Publicity Services Development of In-house Drone Multirotor quadcopter design for agriculture health monitoring and surveying has been developed as part of project. It includes features like, real-time telemetry demonstration at any specified location, full HD live video transmission with dual camera support, all in one hand-held ground station for flying and mission planning. It has a payload capacity of 1.5 kg with a flight time of 40 to 45 min (without payload) and has the altitude capability of 120 m. icar annual report 2022-23 181 variable rate technologies (VRTs) to enhance input use efficiency and optimal production system. Following are the major achievements under this program: Development of spectral models for quick assessment of different soil attributes: Models were developed using machine learning (ML) algorithms such K-Nearest Neighbour (KNN), Random Forest (RF), Ridge Regression (RIDGE), Quantile regression forests (QRF), Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO), Support Vector Machine (SVM), and Elastic Net (EN). The models were validated and compared and the best pipeline was selected for assessment of different soil attributes.