 For horticultural harnessing of khejri, a series of technological advancements were made from year 2000 to 2020 at ICAR-CIAH, Bikaner and recommended are bud-grafting or patch-budding for vegetative propagation and mass-multiplication of plants in the nursery, in-situ orchard establishment by bud-grafting, induction of thornlessness in plants, variety Thar Shobha and Thar Amruta, crop-regulation practice for harvesting both sangri and loong annually, on-farm value addition, and low-input and diversified crop-combination models adopting the HBCPSMA like organic Panchkuta, native, multi-purpose and intensive crop production technology. Recently, farmers have shown much interest in commercial orcharding of khejri varieties because of their horticultural significance in particular to dwarf plant stature and ease in canopy management, thornless, Entrepreneurship through Khejri Technology Khejri (Prosopis cineraria) is a versatile tree of Thar Desert and well-known for its nutritious immature green pods (sangri) and leaf-fodder (loong), and exerts favourable effect on soil and environment in the arid and semi-arid areas of north-western India. Khejri not only tolerates the extreme edapho- climatic conditions but the lush-green plants also bear flowers and pods during peak summer months. ICAR-CIAH, Bikaner has made a series of technological interventions for its systematic promotion which includes clonal multiplication for uniform plantations, varietal improvement for high-quality harvest from thornless plants, orchard establishment models for maximizing resources efficiency, crop regulation to harvest both sangri and loong annually, value addition, packaging and marketing protocol for better income generation as nature’s resilient farming system approach. P S Gurjar1, D K Samadia2, H Ram, A K Verma1, K L Kumawat, M K Berwal3, and D K Sarolia2 Research & Technology uniform quality pods (sangri), regular and high yield of good quality leaf-fodder. However, harvesting, post-harvest handling, processing techniques and packaging have not been standardized so far. Therefore, ICAR-CIAH, Bikaner has further taken initiative in this direction and protocols were developed for value addition, packaging and marketing of sangri as branded product. Nature’s resilient horticultural crop-plant production models with khejri under sand-dunes landscape Standardization of horticultural maturity indices Tender pods of specific maturity stage are required for getting good quality dehydrated sangri, and therefore, to identify the ideal harvesting stage, maturity indices have been standardized. Pods harvested at 3 days intervals i.e. 10, 13, 16, 19 and 22 days after setting were used, and blanched, dehydrated and cooking parameters along with sensory attributes were studied. Rehydration percentage is directly proportional to the quality of the dried product and it is used as an indicator for dry product quality.