 Sensors were placed 15 cm below the soil surface and maintained at a constant depth throughout the growing season. At a depth of 15 cm, soil moisture sensors were used to determine how much irrigation should be applied. As soon as the soil moisture content reached < 33.1%, a notification was sent, and the solenoid valves were opened remotely, triggering the irrigation pump automatically. When 2 43.5% soil moisture was measured in the sensors, a notification was sent, and the irrigating pump and solenoid valve was turned off. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 122 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 123 Fig. 3 Decision flow chart for AI/IoT based irrigation system (a) Smart Phone with cellular connectivity such as LTE/ 5G for capturing the soil moisture data and transmitting them to cloud/ server. (b) Wi-Fi communication (2.4 GHz/ 5GHz band) may also be used for transmitting the data from the smart phone to local hub/ IoT Gateway, which will further transmit the data over cellular/ wireline network to the cloud/ server. -Interfaces, protocols for communications (a) LTE/5G connectivity (modem) (b) Wi-Fi NIC 4. Results of the use case (outcomes) The present IoT-based irrigation system comprises soil moisture sensors that can acquire field data in real-time and act according to that. The AI/IoT based precision irrigation system can give an optimal solution for autonomous agricultural operations for precision, economics, reduced human struggle, and environment protection. The moisture sensor sends the signal to the ESP 32′s configured Wi-Fi module, which triggers the water pump and irrigates the field using the smartphone or computer application if the moisture level falls below the pre- defined value and prediction of occurrence of rainfall is low. The measured variables were continuously recorded automatically and sent to the ThinkSpeak cloud based server. The developed data acquisition unit was switched ON and staked in the agriculture field Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Soil Moisture and Other Sensor Main Controller Collects Data from Weather Website Main Controller sends and recieves data from IOT Platform Take the Decision Based on Received data Weather Website 1OT platform Receive Another Micro-controller Collects Sensor Data & Sends to IOT Platform If Soil Moisture <T1 Pump ON 4 Irrigation Start If Soil Moisture < T2 & Rainfall < T3 Pump OFF YES Pump ON Irrigation Start Fig. 3 Decision flow chart for Al/loT based irrigation system (a) Smart Phone with cellular connectivity such as LTE/ 5G for capturing the soil moisture data and transmitting them to cloud/ server. (b) Wi-Fi communication (2.