 The developed Cr6+ sensing device IMAGinE was found to very precise and robust with very low values of LOD and LOQ, 0.0037 ppm and 0.0112 ppm, respectively. Information and Communication Technology: Smart Performance Appraisal Report Recording Window (SPARROW), an online system for electronic filling of Annual Performance Appraisal Report (APAR) of officers was started. A total of 17,691 APARs have been generated. Agricultural Research Management System (ARMS), an the online portal for all ICAR scientists to submit their significant research achievements, has been developed and implemented. ICAR eOffice software developed by NIC has been implemented across 113 ICAR institutes along with their regional stations/sub- stations. The ICAR eOffice is hosted at ICAR data centre and is running successfully. ICAR-Data Centre, Advanced Supercomputing facility for Omics Knowledge in Agriculture (ASHOKA) and ICAR-Disaster Recovery Centre (ICAR-DRC) are established to provide support in accessing unified communication system, email services, web applications/websites hosting, e-Office, ICAR-ERP, Agricultural Research Management System, Foreign Visit Management System, Personnel Management System, eHRMS, SPARROW, Super Computing facility, and many more digital applications and platforms. In order to provide seamless ICT support to ICAR users across country, a centralized help desk in the form of web application has been developed and implemented to address the issues and concerns related to use of these web applications and services. ICAR- Network Program on Precision Agriculture (NePPA) is focused on exploring potential applications of recent developments on technologies related to sensors, IoTs, drone and ICTs, variable rate technologies (VRTs) for precision smart agriculture. The major objective is to bring precision in monitoring and managing soil fertility, crop health, livestock farming, post-harvest operations, aquaculture and upscaling in farmers’ field to enhance input use efficiency and optimal production system. Technology Assessment, Demonstration and Capacity Development: A total of 6,036 technological options in various crops were assessed by the KVKs at 15,180 locations by carrying out 33,128 trials in farmers’ fields in order to provide technological alternatives to the identified problems across the country. The KVKs assessed 1,099 technological options pertaining to different thematic areas of production and management of cows, buffalo, sheep, goat, poultry, pig and fish at 3,633 locations through 6,771 trials. As part of technology assessment, 339 technologies pertaining to farm women were assessed through 3,066 trials at 1,344 locations with the aim to promote women empowerment.