 I find a 35 percent increase in bicycle ownership among households that received a program road, significant at the 5 percent level (column 1), and a non-significant increase in scooter ownership (column 2). This suggests that households increasingly invest in assets that allow for greater mobility upon gaining access to improved rural road infrastructure. Undoubtedly, bicycle ownership extends beyond enabling households to seek outside employment — for example, it might also increase access to banking services, or enable employers to search for workers beyond village boundaries. I now turn to sup- plementary survey evidence from the field to shed light on the role of infrastructure in influencing agricultural production in previously con- nected villages. I conducted a short survey with 114 male cultivators in 18 rural villages – all of which have all-weather road access and are greater than 10 km from the closest town — across 3 districts in Odisha, India.36 The cultivators in the survey sample are similar on key observables to cultivators in the REDS sample at baseline; for example, the average amount of cultivated land is 2.5 acres (2.4 acres in REDS sample), and 53 percent cultivate non-cereal crops (56 percent in REDS sample). Despite having road connectivity, 42 percent of cultivators express facing difficulties in finding enough hired laborers to work on their land in the past agricultural cycle (Fig. 4, Panel A), with a majority attributing this to a high demand for workers at the same time. In contrast, only 5 percent and 7 percent of cultivators express having difficulty procuring agricultural inputs and selling farm output respec- tively. This is consistent with seasonality in the demand for labor, and 35 Car ownership is very low in this setting - only 0.1 percent of house- holds own a car at baseline. Rural residents commute short distances and predominantly rely on travel by foot or by two-wheelers such as bicycles and scooters. This is consistent with evidence presented in Section 5.3 on commuting patterns among rural Indian workers. 36 This survey was conducted in November 2016 in 3 neighboring districts: Khordha, Nayagarh and Cuttack. suggests that establishing a reliable supply of agricultural labor in the peak season remains to be a concern among cultivators with access to a road network. I present cultivators with a series of questions to better understand their labor hiring practices. 92 percent of cultivators report hiring laborers from inside the village first before hiring laborers from outside the village. When asked why they choose to hire from inside the village first, 56 percent report knowing laborers inside the village better, while 37 percent report that laborers from inside the village are more reliable in terms of showing up to work. Further, when cultivators do hire laborers from outside the village, only 32 percent report having to pay a higher wage in cash, while 82 percent report having to pay more in kind.