 Erwinia carotovora sub Warty outgrowths on stem and tubers of potato Soft rot symptoms (left) and potato tuber cut to show tissues affected by soft rot (right) November–December 2019 37 sp. atroseptica), Pectobacterium carotovorum sub sp. carotovorum (syn. Erwinia carotovora subsp. carotovora), Dickeya spp. (including D. dianthicola, D. dadantii, D. zeae) (syn. Erwinia chrysanthemi) have been found to cause soft rot. Soft rot bacteria may be carried latently in lenticels, wounds and on surface of tubers without any visible symptoms and spread to healthy tubers in stores, during seed cutting, handling and planting. Water film on surface of tuber which cause proliferation of lenticels and creates anaerobic conditions and injury on surface of tuber predispose potatoes to soft rot. Decaying tubers in soil could serve as source of contamination for healthy tubers. Tubers harvested in wet soil, poor ventilation in transit and storage promotes the rot. In warm climates, where one potato crop follows another or where only short rotation cycles are applied, the bacteria can pass easily from one crop to the next, especially in poorly drained soil. The bacteria can survive at places where rotten potatoes and vegetables are dumped. Management Soft rot bacteria are carried deep inside the tuber, in lenticels and surface wounds making it difficult to eradicate. These quiescent bacteria proliferate in high moisture condition and require water film that cause anaerobic conditions leading to disease development. Surface injury predisposes the tubers to soft rot infection. Based on ecology and epidemiology of the disease following management practices have been worked out: • Avoid excess irrigation, provide proper drainage and restrict nitrogen dose to minimum (150 kg/ha). • Adjust planting time to avoid hot weather during plant emergence. Harvest the crop before soil temperature rises above 28°C. • Harvest the crop only when tuber skin is fully cured. • Avoid injury to tubers and sort out bruised/injured tubers. • Store harvested potatoes at around 13-18oC under shade and moderate humidity for 2-3 weeks for bruises to heal before putting the potato in cold stores or transporting them. • Treat tubers (meant for seed purpose) before storage with 3% boric acid for 30 minutes and dry under shade. • Clean and disinfect seed storage facilities/ transporting means thoroughly before storing/ transporting tubers. • Store the produce either in well-ventilated cool stores or cold stores. Common scab Common scab causes superficial lesions on surface of potato tubers. The disease seldom affects yield but economic losses may be high as the affected tubers fetch low price in market due to their poor appearance. Seed lots exceeding 5% incidence are rejected by seed certification agencies (in India) causing huge loss to seed industry.