 Passive RFID Tags: These tags rely on the energy emitted by the RFID reader to transmit data. They are cost-effective and widely used in applications such as inventory management and access control. Active RFID Tags: Active tags have their own power source, enabling them to transmit data over longer distances and in real-time. These are suitable for applications requiring continuous monitoring, like tracking the location of high-value assets. Semi-Passive RFID Tags: Combining elements of both passive and active tags, semi-passive tags use their own power source for data transmission but rely on the RFID reader for energy to power other functionalities. This strikes a balance between extended range and power efficiency. The functions of RFID system generally include three aspects: monitoring, tracking, and supervising. The most interesting and successful applications include supply chain management, production process control, and objects tracking management. Few RFID applications are shown in Figure 16 below- Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report 2.3.5. Radio Frequency Identification Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) is a type of wireless communication that uses electromagnetic or electrostatic coupling in the radio frequency spectrum to uniquely identify an object, animal, or human. A typically RFID system consists of tags (transmitters/ responders) and _ readers (transmitters/receivers). The tag is a microchip connected with an antenna, which can be attached to an object as the identifier of the object. The RFID reader communicates with the RFID tag using radio waves. The RFID tags come in various forms, including passive, active, and semi-passive, each designed for specific use cases. Passive RFID Tags: These tags rely on the energy emitted by the RFID reader to transmit data. They are cost-effective and widely used in applications such as inventory management and access control. Active RFID Tags: Active tags have their own power source, enabling them to transmit data over longer distances and in real-time. These are suitable for applications requiring continuous monitoring, like tracking the location of high-value assets. Semi-Passive RFID Tags: Combining elements of both passive and active tags, semi-passive tags use their own power source for data transmission but rely on the RFID reader for energy to power other functionalities. This strikes a balance between extended range and power efficiency. The functions of RFID system generally include three aspects: monitoring, tracking, and supervising. The most interesting and successful applications include supply chain management, production process control, and objects tracking management.