  State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 137 7 goa The state of Goa comprises of two districts with a total geographical area of 3.61 lakh ha. Out of the total area, 35% is under forest and 44% is gross cropped area. The economy of Goa is primarily driven by tourism and mining followed by agriculture, animal husbandry and fisheries activities. Agriculture contributes to 3.74% of state GDP while secondary and tertiary sectors comprising of industries and services contribute to 80% of the GDP. The two districts of Goa fall under agro-ecological region 19. Western Ghats and Coastal Plain, hot humid-perhumid eco-region (E2BA5). Further, there are two agro-ecological sub regions - 19.2. Goa, being in the tropical zone and near the Arabian Sea, has a hot and humid climate for most of the year with moderate temperature variation between 17 to 35°C. The month of May is the hottest, seeing day temperatures of over 35°C coupled with high humidity. The monsoon rains arrive by early June and provide a much-needed respite from the heat. Goa receives heavy precipitation (2500 to 3200 mm) and most of its annual rainfall is received through the South West monsoon which last till late September. Soils of Goa are mostly laterite (red coloured) with acidic soil reaction. The soils are rice soil organic carbon, deficient in soil available nitrogen, potassium, calcium, magnesium, zinc and boron and medium to sufficient in soil available potassium, iron, manganese, copper. The soils often have poor water holding capacity. Typical agricultural areas in the State are upland and lowland. The coastal saline soils (locally called Khazan) is spread over about 18000 ha area. The major food crops grown in the state are paddy, cereals, pulses, oilseeds, sugarcane and vegetables. The important horticultural crops of the state are cashewnut, coconut, arecanut, mango, banana, pineapple and spices. Fishing is another important activity covering mainly marine fisheries. Inland fisheries are becoming popular considering the growing demand. The milk production is not sufficient to cater to the demand and is imported from neighbouring states. As such, there is good scope for animal husbandry activities. Community dairy scheme introduced by the State Govt. for large scale integrated dairy development is expected to give a big boost for the dairy sector. The marginal or small farmers of the region have very limited land which is getting further fragmented with each generation and therefore farm enterprises requiring less land but higher productivity and employment opportunities, needed to be integrated with crop production. A judicious mix of one or more intercrops along with the main crop has a complimentary effect through effective recycling of wastes and crop residues and encompasses additional source of State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 138 income to the farmers.