 Sufficient shade should be provided. Leaves or new growth 1. Soft, rapid growth may appear due to excessive nitrogen, the application rate of N should be adjusted and reduced. 2. New growths are smaller and stunted, not as plump than previous ones, not growing upright, one should understand that the plant is under stress, either because of weakened root system or insufficient light or too extreme temperatures, deficiency in nitrogen, or a combination of these. Light, temperature levels and fertilizer dosage should be checked. If needed repotting should be done. Sufficient shade and humidity should be provided to the stressed orchids. 3. No or limited new growth may result from nitrogen and/or phosphorous deficiency, or damage / rotting of growth or setback if the plant was divided and left with only one growth. N and P fertilizer should be applied. Buds, flowers and flower spikes 1. Buds become yellow and drop, reasons may be extreme temperature, extreme or insufficient light, too dry air, inadequate watering, micronutrients deficiency or weak root system. Temperature and light should be adjusted at optimum level, and proper fertilizer March–April 2021 25 management practice as specified earlier must be followed. If root system got too weak due to decaying potting materials then the plant should be re-potted as soon as possible. 2. Flowers do not open up fully, this condition may appear due to genetics, or by too low temperature, or may be due to too low humidity or thrip damage. The humidity and temperature should be adjusted. If it is thrip damage, treat the plant with an insecticide as described earlier. 3. Flowers are too small; colours are not as strong as before, this type of flowers comes most probably due to insufficient light, and or too extreme temperatures. The light and temperature should be adjusted. 4. Flowers fade too fast, this situation may be caused by too high or too low temperature, exposure to direct sunlight, too low humidity, micronutrients deficiency, inadequate watering or poor condition of the root system. Adjusting temperature and light at optimum level, following proper fertilizer management practice as specified earlier may manage the situation. If root system got too weak due to decaying potting materials then the plant should be re-potted as soon as possible. 5. Too few flowers may appear due to weak plant, too low light, phosphorous deficiency. Adjusting the light and following proper fertilizer application procedure will solve the problem. 6. Brown streaks or mosaic patterns on flowers, may be due to presence of a virus. 7. Poor display of flowers reduce the attractiveness of orchid flowers, when buds start to form on the flower spikes, one should not change the orientation of the flower spike so as to get the best possible display of flowers. Roots 1. Black or brown roots indicate damaged or rotten roots (root rot fungus). Damaged and rotten roots should be cut.