 The formulation containing Heterorhabditis indica strain SBITND78 has a shelf-life of nine months with 92% survival of nematodes and the formulation containing Steinernema glaseri strain SBILN1 has a shelf-life of 12 months with 90% survival of nematodes. Successful control (more than 75%) of white grub under field conditions obtained with ICAR-SBI EPN biopesticide formulation. The ICAR-SBI EPN biopesticide formulation technology has been commercialized to six biopesticide companies with a license fee of 2 lakhs per licensee. Topramezone a new herbicide for board leaf weed control in chickpea: Chickpea is severely infested with broadleaved weeds during rabi season and no post- emergence herbicide is available to control broadleaved weeds. Topramezone, a promising herbicide, is found to be effective to control broadleaved weeds and some of the narrow leaved weeds. Topramezone applied @ 20.16 g/ha at 20 days after sowing is found to be very effective in controlling broadleaved weeds. Infective juveniles of Heterorhabditis indica strain SBITND78 Identification of key biological indicators of pesticide contamination Comparative whole metagenome sequencing was performed to estimate variations in the bacterial OTU’s and its populations between the lindane contaminated and non-contaminated soil samples. There was significant change in the Shannon diversity index across the sampling sites depicting variation in the microbial composition as influenced by the pesticide contamination. It was found that at the lindance contaminated site there was significant loss in the representation of members of phyla Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, Gemmatimonadetes and Ignavi- bacteriae. The Linear discriminate analysis showed that Marinimicrobium was the significantly affected genera due to lindane contamination. The heat map depicts that at the lindane contaminated site there was high abundance of PAH degrading genera like Pseudomonas, Sphingomonas, Bacteriodia, etc. Weed-wiper technology for managing weedy rice: Weedy rice can reduce rice yields by 40–70%. In Kerala, its infestation in Kuttanad, Kole and Palakkad area is forcing the farmers to even abandon rice cultivation. There are no selective herbicides for its effective control. AICRP-Weed Management centre at Thrissur, developed a weed-wiper device for selective drying of weedy rice earheads by application of glufosinate ammonium at 10– 15% in standing rice crop. Biological control of aquatic weed Salvinia molesta in Madhya Pradesh Salvinia molesta, commonly called as water fern is becoming an aggressive aquatic weed in Central and North India. Adult weevils of host specific bioagent Cyrtobagous saliviniae, were released in 20 ha Salvinia-infested pond in Padua village of district Katni in Madhya Pradesh. Complete control of the weed was achieved within six months and there was no regeneration of weed thereafter.