 Solar photovoltaic uses sun’s heat to produce electricity for lighting homes and buildings, running motors, pumps, electric appliances, etc. To strengthen the activities, the Government of India is promoting and distributing/installing solar street light system (SLS), home lighting system (HLS) and solar lanterns (SL) in different states for upliftment of rural individuals. The number of SLS, HLS and SL distributed/installed were 7.53, 17.21 and 75.86 lakh, respectively. Total cumulative solar pumps of different capacity installed in different states of India are 2.57 lakh on 31.08.20. The technologies like solar cookers, sprayers and dryers along with solar powered refrigeration system may also play an important role in supporting the rural livelihood. These technologies will help in all-round development of rural people by utilizing local available solar energy to conduct different on- farm and off-farm activities. The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) of GOI has launched a scheme on “Scale Up of Access to Clean Energy for Rural Productive Uses” with an aim to enhance the use of reliable and affordable renewable energy for rural productive uses/livelihoods in un-served and under-served areas in three states (Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha) for strengthening rural livelihoods, improving income generation and reducing use of fossil fuels. Thrust will also be given on solar dryers, solar cold storage, solar aerators, etc. The use of solar energy for livelihood support of rural people not only reduces the air and water pollution but also a sustainable source of energy generation with less maintenance. The developed technologies on solar energy have multi-dimensional aspect for enhancing energy Small Agri-Enterprises and Waste Management: Gandhian Thoughts Fig. 10 : Solar pumping system 118 sufficiency in the rural India and could be a constant source of income generation. As the energy is being extracted from solar, the need of using the firewood energy and other fossil fuel based energy reduces which create clean and green environment. 4. Dissemination of Waste Management Technologies Teaching and preaching through practical demonstration are the most effective Gandhian ways to disseminate ideas to the public. For any technology and concept for rural development, the practical example should be shown first to people and then approach of “learning by doing” is to be followed. Gandhiji was of the opinion that the rural mass should be educated about the new technologies and they may be motivated to use these technologies/methods or ways of living. Further, Gandhiji considered that school education was the foundation of rural development. We should educate the rural youth, student and children first about the new and future technologies which can save our environment and nation future. The information given to rural youth, student and children remains longer in the society and has long term positive and tested impact.