 The convention was inaugurated Dr RC Agarwal, DDG (Agricultural Education) and National Director NAHEP, ICAR. A compendium of abstracts of participants on different agri- business ideas and success stories was released by Dr Veeranna Chananthimath, the Hon’ble MLA, Bagalkotand a great patron of UHS, Bagalkot. Dr K M Indiresh, Hon’ble VC, UHS, Bagalkot, highlighted the activities of UHS, Bagalkot, such as the student READY programme, ELP and certificate and vocational courses for making students job-ready as well as entrepreneurship ready. Start-ups need-based following 6 technical sessions with different themes were conducted in consultation with MANAGE, Hyderabad and C-CAMP, Bangalore, who have been supporting and handholding the start-ups through incubation: Theme 1: Farm Inputs- Opportunities and Challenges for Agri-Start-ups Theme 2: Hi-Tech Farming for new age agripreneurs All India Agri Start-up Convention 2022 Events Organized Theme 3: Value addition for Agri Produce -A boon to Agri Start-ups Theme 4: Farm to Plate - Optimizing supply chain management in Agriculture Theme 5: Mechanization and Automation- An Arena for new generation entrepreneurs Theme 6: Market Linkages and Networking facets for Agri- startups Experts from academia, industry and entrepreneurs in their respective fields were invited to share their knowledge and experience on entrepreneurial opportunities in different sectors. More than 500 students from different universities in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Jammu and Kashmir attended the event. In addition, 52 start-ups showcased their products and ideas in the Agri-Start-up exhibitions. University of Horticultural Sciences, Bagalkot, Karnataka 587 104 Email: vc@uhsbagalkot.edu.in 86 U nder National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP), Component-2, ICAR-National Academy of Agricultural Research Management on 29 September 2022, organized a National Symposium on “Mainstreaming of Agricultural Higher Education by Private Universities in India” at its campus at Hyderabad. Dr RC Agrawal, Deputy Director General (Edn) and National Director of NAHEP in his inaugural address highlighted the need for transformation of agricultural education in the country in the wake of the National Education Policy-2020 and also to revisit the land grant pattern of State Agricultural Universities. The ICAR is keen in supporting private agricultural universities in terms of student admissions, and scholarships etc, to those who comply with guidelines such as accreditation. The one- day symposium deliberated on four important themes viz.