 Extract of some species of Strobilanthes has been commonly used to cure viral infections by hepatitis B virus, mumps virus, influenza viruses. These are also used to treat snake bites, spider poisoning, cerebrospinal meningitis and viral pneumonia, etc. Some species of Strobilanthes (e.g. Strobilanthes cusia) are used in traditional Chinese medicine. Mechanism of flowering The flowering period of Strobilanthes spp. varied across the genus particularly known for its gregarious flowering over vast area at particular flowering cycle. Most of the species blooms in September to December, while S. lupulina and S. hamiltoniana flowers bloom throughout the year. Karinkurinji, i.e. Strobilanthes ciliate is one of the species which flowers every year. Flowering cycle pattern varies with 4-5, 8-9 and 10 years. Strobilanthes is remarkable for its diversity in pollen and plietesial pattern of flowering of many species. Plants that flower at long intervals are known as plietesials and grow for a number of years, produce flowers synchronously, set seeds and then die. The length of the cycle may vary between 8 and 16 years. Strobilanthes produce blooms as ‘synchronized flowering’. Masting or mast seeding, production of huge seeds within a particular time in an area also seen in Neelakurunji. There is no proper scientific evidence to explain gregarious blooming of Neelakurunji over a large area with same periodic cycle. Recent blooms of Neelkurunji One of the major tourist destinations that received the major tourist foot fall for its mesmerizing scenery and the once-in-twelve years blooming of Neelakurinji (Strobilanthes kunthiana (Nees) T. Anders.) unique to Munnar ranges which is known as ‘The Kashmir of Southern India’. In 2018, Kerala witnessed magnificent panorama seen from Kovilur, Kadavari and Eravikulam National Parks in Munnar in the Western Ghats mountain ranges. Munnar ranges are regarded as the ‘Queen of Kurunji flowers’. Eravikulam National Parks in Munnar Taxonomical hierarchy of Neelakurunji Kingdom Plantae Sub-kingdom Phanerogamia Division Angiospermia Class Eudicots Sub-class Asterids Order Lamiales Family Acanthaceae Genus Strobilanthes Vernacular names Hindi -Kurinji Kannada: Kurunji, Harle, Gurige, Gurgi Tamil and Malayalam -Neelakurinji Medicinal uses Apart from its ornamental beauty, Neelakurinji, an underutilized plant, can also be used for its medicinal properties. Plants are an abundant source of unique active components which shows anticancer, anti- Neelakurinji flowers (Strobilanthes sessilis) Indian Horticulture 38 has recorded an arrival of 4.44 lakh domestic and 1.08 lakh foreign tourists for the visual treat of Neelakurinji bloom. The largest species diversity of Strobilanthes spp. is in the Southern Western Ghats ranges, especially in the Kerala section. Karnataka is undoubtedly one of the rich biodiversity hot spot in the country, and the appearance of Neelakurinji flowers has contributed to its beauty.