 The on-line availability of research journals online in Open Access has enhanced visibility and improved the global reach. The top ten countries those read ICAR literature are Iran, Turkey, China, Algeria, Egypt, Indonesia, USA, South Korea, Mexico and Malaysia. Research journals have 55405 registered readers and total registered users on the e- publishing platform of research journals are more than 75,000. In all the e-pubs platform Indian Agricultural research journals (http://epubs.icar.org.in/ejournal) hosts 39 research journals published by the Council or professional societies in agriculture. Viewership analysis revealed that on this portal—total sessions were 253,376 by 139,865 users, and they viewed 1,459,581 pages in 188 countries. Open access archives pertaining to the Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences, Indian Journal of Animal Sciences, Indian Farming and Indian Horticulture have 511 issues with more than 13,000 articles. Write-Workshops were also organized to motivate and train young authors in scientific writing. Trainings on ‘Online article processing’ and editorial assistance, were provided to various stakeholders for printing and publishing of scientific on-line journals. Showcasing of new technologies The Council organized and participated in 15 exhibitions for showcasing the new technologies on the occasion of national and international events, and sale of ICAR publications and e-products (January- December 2017). Notable exhibitions in which ICAR participated are 15. Consortium for e-Resources in Agriculture Consortium for e-Resources in Agriculture (popularly known as CeRA) is the first of its kind for facilitating 24×7 online access of select journals in agricultural and allied sciences to all researchers, teachers and students, policy planners, administrators and extension specialists in National Agricultural Research and Education System (NARES) through IP authentication. Currently CeRA is subscribing to over 3,900 journals and 1,174 e-books to 152 member institutions of NARES. To create awareness among scientists/faculty/ students of member initiations of CeRA, a detailed programme was envisaged region wise. More than 100 participants from all the 152 member institutions of CeRA participated for the workshop. The workshop helped in dissemination of information among the member institutions. During 2017, CeRA introduced the provision of e-books and procured 1,174 e-book related with agriculture and allied filled. These e-books are accessible to all the member institutions of CeRA from January onwards. Apart from this, CeRA has also provided access of new e-Resource i.e. ISO standards, 84 Wiley e-journals and Indiaagristat.com to member institutions. During this period over 23 lakhs of full text journals were downloaded by member institutions of CeRA and over 5 thousand Document Delivery Requests were successfully fulfilled.