 Innovative lysimeter for on-farm water management: An incubate of ICAR-CIRCOT, M/s Green Prosperity Innovations, Satara, Maharashtra developed this innovative lysimeter for effective management of water at farm level. The system comprises intelligently designed components with high measurement accuracy and is easy to install, operate and manage with customized soft tool. Features • Used for both surface or pressurized irrigation systems. • Cost effective solution that is easy to install, operate and maintain. • User-friendly soft tool gives user customized solutions and guidance. POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 100 • Improves water use efficiency by 25%. Applications • Fertilizer or soil-based input management. • Sub-surface drainage design and management. • Irrigation water quantity and time management. • Reclamation of contaminated soils. Engineered jute based agro-textiles for enhancing crop yields: Crop yields are generally limited by several factors like water, soil nutrients availability, proper managements, etc. Mulching manipulates the crop- growing environment to increase crop yield and improve product quality by controlling soil temperature, retaining soil moisture and reducing soil evaporation. A major limitation of polyethylene mulch involves disposal of mulch, if not properly disposed off, can fragment, and cause damage to environment, i.e. land and water resources. Jute based mulch can be a sustainable alternative of synthetic mulch. Jute based agro-textiles were engineered using 50% pure jute with 50% caddies (waste jute) on weight basis. For research purpose six different categories of jute non-woven 100% jute of 250, 450, 650 GSM and 50% jute plus 50% caddies of 250, 450, 650 GSM with synthetic and rice straw as mulch were used. Engineered Jute based Agro-textiles, i.e. 50% jute plus 50% caddies of 450 GSM outperformed among Jute based agro-textiles Value apparel and home textile products developed from banana/jute/viscose fibres Banana is one of the world’s oldest cultivated crops and it is also one of the major fruit crops growing in each and every state of India. Banana stem is commonly discarded after harvesting the fruit. Banana pseudostem is mainly composed of four different parts: fibre, scutcher, sap and central core. From the stem, the fibre is extracted after scutching and washing in water or dilute chemical. The extraction of fibre from the banana stem is now-a- days gaining academic interest and decentralized product development, especially in the village level. This fibre can be used for making fabric, high quality handmade High value fine textiles from banana/jute/regenerated cellulosic fibres paper and different attractive handicrafts. The fibre is coarser and stiffer as compared to jute fibre, but possesses good ultraviolet (UV) resistance and fire resistance properties and very much suitable for making coarse yarns with good tensile strength.