 The concern would be how those technologies are going to be commercialized in developing countries. Issues of patenting and Note: In crops numbers (1, 2) followed by its name denotes different species. Technique refers to genome editing technique; CC9-CRISPR Cas9, CC10-CRISPR Cas10. Process are starting with ‘A’ denoted its involves Agro-bacterium (with and exception of HRT which is also Agro-bacterium mediated). ABC- Agrobacterium/Calllus, ATC-Agro-transformation of cotyledons, ABIE-Agrobacterium/immature embryo, PB-Transformation using particle bombardment, PBC-Particle bombardment/callus, PBIE-Particle bombardment/immature embryo, ABLD- Agrobacterium/lad discs, AILT-Agroinfiltration/leaf tissue, ABMT- Agro-bacterium mediated transformation. ABCP-Agrobacterium/ cotyledonary petioles, PT-Protoplast transformation, ABBI- Agrobacterium/Stem segments, HRT-Hairy root transformation by A. rhizogenes, ABLT-Agroinfiltration/leaf tissue. Note: In WIPO India patent data is available from 2005. Source: Extracted from WIPO patentscope database. https://patentscope.wipo.int/search/en/search.jsf. SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 113 commercialization might make the method more expensive in developing countries. Mapping of apple value chain: Apples in India are mainly grown in three mountainous states of North India. In J&K, about 48% of the area is covered under apple as per the horticulture census 2016–17 and also in terms of production (17.26 lakh MT) it provides the maximum marketable surplus. The harvesting of fruit begins from August for early maturing cultivars and continues till November with peak activity in September and October. Nearly 30% of total produce of apple crop is going waste due to pre-harvest drop, making total annual quantum of such fruit about 0.25 million metric tonnes (MT). A study on “Apple Value Chain” was conceived to analyze the apple value chain and its effectiveness. The survey sample of year 2018– 19 gave information on distribution of apple from farmers’ field via different marketing channels to consumers round the year. Approximately 58% of total apple produced in Kashmir valley was circulated in the country through pre-harvest contractors purchased from captive growers. Free growers also sold 25% of apple through commission agents, 5% through local traders. Besides this, around 5% apple was stored by free growers directly in Cold storage/Controlled atmospheric storage. In addition to this around 7% of produce was purchased by processing plant that mainly included B-grade, C-grade and fallen apple. From pre- harvest contractors, 25% apple was purchased by Laddani and 65% by commission agents. Apart from this 12% of the produce was stored in CS/CAS located mainly in Lassipora, Pulwama, Sonipat and Badli, Haryana; 68% of the apple procured by commission agents moved through apple value chain by Laddani while 22% was moved across the channels by Mashkhors.