 If Tikka or Rust is observed spray Mancozeb 2 gm/litre water. Precaution should be taken so that water stress condition may not occur in summer groundnut crop during peg initiation to pod development stage. To save the crop from unseasonal rains, storage of harvested crop should be done at safe places. Precautions should be taken so that the harvested pods may not damage due to unseasonal rains and hail storms Sugarcane: yy For management of white fly in sugarcane take a spray of Chlorpyrifos 20 % @ 30 ml or fipronil 5 % @ 30 ml per 10 litres of water during clear weather condition. Irrigation management should be done in sugarcane crop. Entomopathogenic nematode Grubnash should be used @ 7 kg /ha for the control of White grub in sugarcane. Paddy: yy Carry out weeding in the summer paddy and afterwards apply remaining 3rd dose of Nitrogen @ 25 kg/ha and maintain 5-7 cm water level in paddy field. If infestation of Stem borer is observed @ 4-5% in paddy field, spray with Quinalphos @ 32 ml in 10 litres of water. Pomegranate: yy Precaution should be taken so that water stress condition may not occur in pomegranate orchard. Remove suckers shoot in pomegranate orchard. Take a spray of potassium nitrate @ 15 gm per litre of water. 159 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Custard Apple: yy For new plantation, use quality and disease-free planting material of high yielding and market acceptable varieties like Balanagar, Dharur, Daulatabad selction, etc. Spray Verticelium lecani @ 40 gm per 10 lit water for the control of mealy bugs. Citrus: yy Use quality and disease-free planting material from registered nurseries for new plantation. Irrigation management should be done in Ambia Bahar to citrus orchard. Take a spray of potassium nitrate @ 15 gm per litre of water. Application of Bordo paste should be done on tree trunk before onset of monsoon to protect the crop from gummosis and dieback. Mango: yy Organic mulching should be done and the orchard should be irrigated during early in the morning, at evening or during night hours. To protect the mango fruits from the incidence of fruit fly, install “Rakshak fruit fly trap” developed by university @ 4 traps per hectare. Fallen fruits should be collected and destroyed to keep orchard clean. Fruit fly lays its eggs in the fruits below outer cover of the fruit when the fruit is about to mature. The larvae develop on the pulp of the fruit. Hence, the infested fruits should be destroyed. The soil should be ploughed below the tree. Banana: yy For protection of banana orchard from hot air, make use of green net in southwest direction of orchard. Earthing up should be done in banana orchard. Provide shade to newly planted or small plants to protect them from high temperature. Organic mulching should be done in banana orchard. Irrigate banana orchard during early in the morning, at evening or during night time.