 (Laboratory analysis was done at Department of Animal Nutrition, Ranchi Veterinary College, Ranchi) CONCLUSION The findings lead to conclusion that ethnic food (vegetable) of munga is a boon for people. Dietary preparations from leaves and flowers of munga are popular because of its high nutritive and therapeutic value. Table 4. Chemical composition of leaves of munga (dry weight basis) Moisture (%) Crude protein (%) Total ash Fat (%) Crude fibre (%) Calcium(mg/kg) 71.9 9.49 13.33 1.23 19.12 0.95  ETHNIC FOOD Code :1742 Title of the ITK :Use of sanai (Crotalaria juncea) flower as vegetable–an ethnic food Description of the ITK :Flowers of sanai (Crotalaria juncea) are used for making vegetable by tribals of Ranchi district in Jharkhand. Yellow flowers of sanai also have medicinal properties. It is used as a medicine against cancer and bark of the plant is used for making ropes. The vegetable is prepared by frying the flowers with mustard oil then adding tomato and chilli powder in it. All the tribal farmers in the district use this age-old practice. Nutritious, protineous, expensive vegetable are unaffordable for about 85% of poor farmers. Tribals of this place consider flower of sanai as cheap and nutritious vegetable. It saves money instead of purchasing expensive vegetables. Name and address of the discloser :Shri Ranjit Bara, Pathalkudwa, Church Lane, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 001 Location of use of the ITK :Hatma, Mander, Ranchi (Jharkhand) Geographical indicators :Sunhemp (Crotalaria juneca) is grown in almost all parts of India. But the state of Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh are most prominent in this respect. The crop is grown best in tropical and subtropical climate. A minimum of 40 cm of rainfall distributed is not less than 50 rainy days during the growing season is a primary requisite of the crop. Experimenters :Dr (Ms) N. Bara, Scientist, Department of Extension Education, Dr R.P. Singh “Ratan”, Head Department of Extension Education, Dr A. P Singh, Head, and Dr R. Bhakta, Departmentof Animal Nutrition, Ranchi Veterinary College, Ranchi METHODOLOGY Location The study was carried out in village Hatma, block Mander, dist. Ranchi (Jharkhand). PRA and field study The reported ITK was compared with kudrum (Hibicus sabdaeriffa), an identical ITK, for preparation of ethnic food. PRA/field study was conducted involving 20 respondents. The parameters or factors studied were beneficial, nutritious, delicious,easily available and popular. Assessment of different preparations was also done through PRA. Experiment An experiment was conducted for organoleptic  ETHNIC FOOD evaluation in 10 replications with two treatments, viz. T1 –vegetable of fresh sanai flower; and T 2 – vegetable of dry sanai flower. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Data presented in Table 1 reveal that all the preparations of sanai flower were rated higher than those of kudrum flower. Hence sanai flower was preferred to kudrum.