 The committee agrees and recommends independent, third party analysis to establish beyond doubt whether the "purified" BNBt event is the same as the original event, which was described in the Current Science paper of Katageri et al. Plant material for the same is to be provided by Dr. Katageri. Dr. Kumar shall provide plasmids and information on primers. Complete sequence of the event in purified BNBt must be obtained by NRCPB at the earliest, and if possible, before the third party analysis. In case the "purified" event is not established to be an event same as the BNLA106, the validity of the Current Science paper becomes questionable. THE PROCESS OF DEVELOPMENT 5.00 The second term of reference to the Committee was to examine to the deficiencies, if any, in the entire process of development of the BNLA106 (BNBt cotton event) and subsequent development, release and commercialization of BNBt cotton variety and Bt NHH 44 hybrid. 8 - - - - 5.01 In hindsight, and to say the least, the project entitled "Bt-transgeni<;: pigeonpea, rice and cotton for insect resistance" under NATP appears not to have been planned well. Though Dr. Kumar was the P.1. for the project, the role of the P.1. seems to have been restricted to providing the gene construct, and subsequently to assist in conducting a few Southern hybridization analyses. As there was no expertise in UAS in crucial areas such as homozygosity testing, and development of event specific markers, the teams at UAS and CICR used two private service providers. In documents provided to the committee by ICAR, both NRCPB (note submitted to DG, ICAR on 20-10-2011 by Director, NRCPB; Annexure-VIII-A; Pgs.89-96) and CICR (note on characterization of crylAc in purported BNLA 106 event submitted by Director, CICR on 18-12-2010; Annexure-VIII-B; Pgs.97- 109) have expressed their doubts about the analysis conducted by one of these service providers. It would have been appropriate if the critical task of developing event specific primers was handled by one of the team members who had the expertise for carrying out such a study. 5.02 'Event specific primers should have been developed for BNBt, preferably by the P.1. of the project, and used for regular DNA based, event specific purity testing of the plants. Purity testing should have been done by the team at UAS, or at NRCPB, by getting leaf material from UAS. Neither did so. Dr Katageri stated that he did not have the technical skills to carry out such studies, and also was not aware of any methodology to differentiate various events. However, in the proposal of the NATP it has been indicated that Dr. Katageri would be responsible for molecular analysis of BNSt. Such DNA based tests should have also been performed when conducting selection in different generations, and also during commercial seed production by UAS. Such DNA based testing to assess purity is also crucial when materials are provided for regulatory studies. This was not done. Not only did Dr.