5 ml or Chloropyriphos 20 EC @ 2ml/liter water at the time of pea size fruiting also help in managing fruit fly. For termite management avoid application of undecomposed FYM, drench with Chloropyriphos 20 EC @ 1ml/ liter water if termite infestation observed. Citrus For managing Citrus canker apply Streptocycline @ 250/100 water and NSKE @ 5kg/100 lit. water. For the management of leaf minor spray with Rogor or Metasystox @ 300 ml/100 lit water Fruit dropping is a serious problem before harvesting, hence foliar spray should be done with 10 ppm 2,4-D (1g/100 lit. water) Apply third dose of nitrogenous fertilizer during September month. During October, to fulfill the requirement of micronutrients apply zinc sulphate, magnesium sulphate, boric acid and slacked lime (each @ 1kg/450 lit. water), apply 500 ppm Streptocycline if citrus canker damage is observed during this month. During October at least one intercultural operation should be done in citrus orchards. For the management of Gummosis problem in December month, it ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 94 is advised to scrap the gum from bark of the affected parts and apply paste of Bordeaux mixture (1:2:20 ratio), in severe incidence soil drenching with matalaxyl or foliar spray with Fosetyl-Aluminum is recommended. Fruits orchard should be clean and weed free. Papaya In papaya nursery raising and planting at 2.5 m row and 1.6 m spacing is recommended for higher yields and income. Aonla In Aonla regular orchard cleaning, irrigation and fruit drop can be managed by spray of borax 6g/ liter water. Guava In Guava application of manure and fertilizer and regular cleaning and irrigation in orchard. In this season harvesting the fruit and protect plants from stem and fruit borer pest. Pomegranate In Pomegranate harvest Mrig Bahar fruits and protect the plant from fruit rotting, leaf and fruit spot disease. Lasora In Gunda (Lasora) orchard cleaning should be done and defoliate the leaves for early fruiting. Sapota In Sapota flowering start in September to October, so orchard should be kept clean and after fruit setting application of fertilizer and regular irrigation should be initiated. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 95 Seed Spices Cumin Recommended varieties: Cumin- GC-4 and RZ-223 Seed rate and sowing: 12-15 kg seed/ha, sowing of cumin should be done in the second fortnight of October and up to 05th November in line with Row-to-row distance of 30 cm. Soil and field preparation: Sandy and sandy loam soils are suitable for cumin cultivation. Field should be prepared well with help of cultivator and harrow Nutrient management: FYM @ 10-15 ton/ha, 20 kg P, 10 kg ZnSO4 and 15 kg K should be applied before sowing during the field preparation and 30 kg Nitrogen fertilizer should be applied in two split doses; first dose before sowing and remaining second dose 30- 35 DAS with the light irrigation.