 Many agricultural university libraries implemented the RFID technology in the library for library security and library in house operations such as self check in and check out and stock verification. Several text/ reference/e books/ encyclopedias etc. were added for scientists/ students/ faculties to keep them updated with recent advancement in subjects. Several new services like access to library resource from their desk, SMS alerting service, and Wi-Fi facility in library premises were provided under this. Electronic resources like INDIASTAT, CMIE, CAB Abstracts, Britannica Encyclopedia, Animal Simulator were procured for library users free of cost. Reprographic services were strengthened and newsroom facility developed for the students. Highend scanner and other hardware were procured to carry out digitization of thesis for Krishikosh. New books, e–journals, general education books have immensely helped students to improve research, formulate projects, improvement in publication quality and compete at national and regional level competitions. Many students have succeeded in securing admission for Masters /Doctoral studies in institutes of repute, within the country and abroad, which could be attributed to the rich collection of books and information material available in the libraries. Smart Classroom Facility ICAR-IVRI profile) were developed at IVRI, Bareilly. E-inventory document of museum was prepared and published. Webpage of museum was prepared and can be accessed through IVRI website (http://ivri.nic.in) Support for Infrastructural Development The additional grant for new amenities to be created in various AUs was released during the year. The support under the component ‘Development and Strengthening’ continued during the year for renovation and refurbishing of existing structures, with emphasis on AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 94 establishment of Agricultural University in Andhra Pradesh and Horticultural University in Telangana. So far, an amount of ` 135.00 crore has been released to each university. With the establishment of these new universities, the agriculture development in these states shall be further strengthened. • Financial support has been extended for the establishment of Horticultural University in Haryana. An amount of ` 5.0 crore has been released during financial year 2016-17. Support under Tribal Sub-Plan Tribal welfare programmes were supported in 21 agricultural universities with financial support of ` 38.00 crore. This has contributed in up-liftment of the livelihood and socio-economic conditions of the rural and tribal communities. Various programmes were executed through more than 1,500 training programmes, workshops and demonstrations, etc. leading to capacity building and creating awareness among more than 50,000 tribal farmers.