 Cost data were collected using data capture tools (Supplemental Material–data collection tools) designed for the project. All data collected were entered into a customized excel-based costing tool, adapted from the costing tool developed by the UCL Centre for Global Health Economics (http://www.ighe.org) for analysis. The tool categorizes the costs based on the following line items: staff, materials, capital, joint costs (shared by several activities such as field travel and partner meetings), and overheads. the tool also categorizes costs based on the intervention component: AGRI, NUT, PLA, training of government frontline health and nutrition care providers, quality assurance and monitoring, or partner coordination, and implementation stage (startup or implementation). Staff costs were allocated to intervention components using data from staff time–use surveys collected through interviews with all project staff (full descriptions of line items, intervention components, and implementation phases are given in Supplemental Material Table S3). The same allocation rule was applied to allocate nonstaff joint costs to intervention components. Capital costs were annualized based on the estimated lifetime of each item, using a discount rate of 3%. We included contributions of the international technical (JSI RTI) and research partners (LSHTM and UCL) in developing and supporting interventions, but not research costs. Costs to government health system. We measured direct financial costs and indirect opportunity costs incurred by primary health centers and government frontline health and nutrition care providers [i.e., Anganwadi workers (AWWs), accredited social health activists (ASHAs), and auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs)]. Direct costs were based on any increase in the use of health and nutrition services (in the past 6 mo), as determined by comparing percentages of households using any health or nutrition services in each intervention relative to control in the endline survey, and published data on unit cost to health centers for providing those services (31–36). We estimated the indirect costs as the opportunity costs of government frontline health and nutrition care providers participating in the interventions. This calculation was based on group attendance by government frontline health and nutrition workers (assessed from facilitator registers), mean durations of meetings and travel times to meeting locations (from the endline survey), and published monthly salaries of the government frontline health and nutrition care providers (Supplemental Material Table S2). Costs to participants and their households.