 The adoption of transplanting technology has become a catalyst for agricultural advancement, contributing to increased productivity and sustainable farming practices across a diverse geographical landscape. Recognizing the potential of transplanting technology, redgram farmers in the district have formed associations, envisioning the export of processed dal to neighbouring states and even venturing into international markets. Embracing this cutting-edge technology has positively transformed the living standards of redgram farmers, turning Bidar into the pulse bowl of Karnataka and a symbol of progress and prosperity in agriculture. The district is now witnessing the establishment of numerous redgram processing units thereby creating substantial employment opportunities. SUMMARY Redgram is one of the most important commercial crops for dryland farmers in Bidar district of Karnataka. Traditional cultivation practices, improper sowing time, inadequate plant population, defective method of sowing, inadequate intercultural operations, inadequate use of phosphatic fertilizers and improper method of application are the major agronomic constraints due to which productivity is declining. In this regard, ICAR-KVK, Bidar initiated a trial on transplanting of Redgram after a collaborative discussion and brainstorming session with progressive farmers and ICAR-KVK scientists in 2004-05 that led to achieving promising results. Subsequently, ICAR-KVK, Bidar has made efforts and conducted various activities like OFTs, FLDs, capacity building, farm advisories and services. As a result, Redgram transplanting technology was standardized. The technology involves meticulous process of preparing seedlings through polythene bags and careful germination management, leading to healthy seedlings ready for transplantation after 30 days in the main field. The adoption of transplanting technology has enabled farmers to tap into the maximum yield potentiality of redgram that resulted unprecedented yields than they had previously obtained. Once a neglected crop, redgram has become a major commercial crop through this technology now. Overall, the success of this technology in Bidar district showcases its potential to revolutionize redgram cultivation especially in dryland significantly enhance farmers’ livelihoods. The Redgram transplanting technology has not only taken root in Bidar but has also proliferated into neighbouring districts and beyond the state borders. As redgram transplanting technology offers numerous advantages, it became a resource effective crop production approach to unleash the potential yield of redgram and tailor-made solution that aligns with the specific needs of small and marginal farmers of dryland farming in Bidar district of Karnataka in particular as well as in other districts of Karnataka and other states across the country in general. *Corresponding author email: nmsunilkumar@gmail.com degradation problems.