 To induce oestrus, pigeon waste is given orally in raw form without mixing any thing by farmers of Bhujia village in Bareilly district of Uttar Pradesh. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Om Prakash S/o Shri Manohar Lal, Village- Bhujia, Bhaujipura, Barielly (Uttar Pradesh). Location of use of the ITK : Many villages in Bareilly and Budaun districts of Uttar Pradesh. The ITK is being used in the village Purenatal and Pandari-Halwa of Bhaujipura block of Bareilly district. Experimenters : Dr. D. Swarup, Head, Division of Medicine; Dr. Satish Kumar, Senior Scientist, A.R. Division and Dr. Mahesh Chander, Senior Scientist, Division of Extension Education, Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar (Uttar Pradesh) 243 122 METHODOLOGY Location Field study was done in villages of Bareilly district and clinical trial was undertaken in villages of Nainital district in Haldwani block with the help of grameen aud krishi vikas samiti, Haldwani. PRA and field study Farmers of 4 villages in Bareilly district of Uttar Pradesh were contacted to elucidate information on the use and efficacy of the ITK practice. Experiment Experiment was conducted with 36 animals in villages around Haldwani, almost raised under identical feeding and managemental raising. These animals had subactive ovaries without any palpable CL or folicle on its surface. Pigeon waste (droppings) were collected from the local habitat of the birds. It was cleaned from debris, dried and powdered. A dose rate of 100 g of this powder per day for 3 consecutive days were fed to post-partum anoestrus bovines, and the following follow up was done: did animal show heat? if animal showed heat then on what day? whether the animal received insemination? duration of heat? nature of heat? if inseminated the result? The pregnancy diagnosis was done after 60 days of insemination/ mating. Simultaneously in another group of post-partum anoestrus bovines the recommended therapy of allopathic medicine consisting of hormonal preparation and mineral mixture was administered. Basic studies on determination of chemical in pigeon waste was done at the Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar. RESULT AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Response of farmers about the use of pigeon waste for treatment of post-partum anestrus in animals are indicated below.   VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Experiment Clinical trial was conducted in 36 animals out of which, results of 27 animals are available that are presented in Table1. About technology Number of respondents Number Percentage Whether they know about this technology Yes 20 71.4 No 08 28.5 Have they ever tried this technology for their animalsYes 12 42.8 No 16 57.1 Are they still using this technology Yes 10 35.7 No 18 64.2 Does this technology really works these days Yes 06 21.4 No 10 35.7 Can’t say 12 42.8 Table 1. Effect of pigeon droppings for treatment of post-partum anestrus in bovines Group No. of No. of No.