 Seed coat of mahua @ 10-15 per kg of paddy seed is mixed thoroughly before it is stored for seed purpose. Keywords: mahua seed coat, paddy seed storage Ms Anant Rout Ekchalia, Pipili, Puri (Orissa) 2467 Use of rock salt for controlling storage pest of paddy grain This practice is quite common among farmers of paddy growing areas of Jammu region (Jammu and Kashmir). Small pieces of rock salt are put in the storage structure containing paddy grains. It is effective in checking Agriculinfestation of storage insect-pests in paddy grain to an extent of 40%. Rock salt is a cheap product, hence it is a very economical practice. Keywords: rock salt, paddy grains, storage insect-pests Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2442 Hastening germination of paddy seeds Mixing of dung with paddy seed and covering it with wet gunny bags and then sowing in the nursery after 1-2 days hastens the germination of the seeds. This practice is being used in Garhi block and adjoining areas of Udhampur district of Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: dung, wet gunny bag Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricul- tural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2436 Storing of maize cobs in kitchen This practice is commonly found in every state of North Eastern Dr N. Prakash, Dr P.P.Pal,  Hill Region. Through this system, cobs are tied together (20-25 cobs ) with the help of a small rope and kept as suspended animation from the roof of the kitchen. The smoke of the kitchen is allowed to pass through the cobs. This smoke drives away the insects as well as prolongs the storage period by preventing them from fungal attack. Keywords: maize cobs, rope, roof, smoke, insects, fungal attack Dr P. Sundrambal, Dr R. Kumar and Dr B. Bihari Agricultural Extension Division, ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region Barapani (Meghalaya)- 793 103 Ref: Indigenous technological knowledge followed by the tribal farmers of North eastern hill in agriculture. Indian J. Hill Farmg 12 (1&2): 134-135(1999) 2452 Hanging unhusked maize cobs from the roof for seed storage The storage of food grains begins immediately after the harvesting of the crop. Mostly unhusked maize cobs are hung in a bunch form from the roof. This exercise is done to retain seed for planting the crop in the following season. The main aim is to put dry, clean, uninfested produce in a sound, clean and safe storage.