 The project is developed by ICAR-Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute and Digital India Corporation, MietY, Government of India under a MoU Between ICAR and DIC, MietY and implemented in association with Agriculture Extension Division, ICAR. Currently the services has been started in four major states of India, viz. Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. At present, a total of 230 KVKs are enrolled with the system, where more than 800 subject matter experts are extending their advisory services to more than 8 Lakh farmers. Launching of Kisan-Sarathi by the Honourable Ministers INFORMATION, COMMUNICATION AND PUBLICITY SERVICE ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 137 Agricultural Research Management System (https:/ /arms.icar.gov.in): The Agricultural Research Management System (ICAR-ARMS) has been developed for evaluation, monitoring and management of scientific output for policy planning of the Council. Version 1.0 of this system was released on 19 March 2021 to input scientific achievements of each scientist from April 2021 onwards. This system will help in real time research assessment and its prioritization at different management levels, i.e. institute, SMD and the Council. ARMS is being used by ICAR Scientists from April 2021 onwards for uploading their significant achievements in various categories on monthly basis and 2 virtual training programs for nodal officers on 8th June and 11th October 2021, and 4 webinars were organized to sensitize the users on 20 October, 22 October, 25 November and 2 December 2021 for scientists of ICAR. There was a question-answer session after completion of presentation and demo for all virtual trainings and webinars. A development and support team are working continuously for enhancement, modification and answer to queries from various scientists of ICAR. e-HRMS (Human Resource Management System): It is a work flow based online solution which consists of creation of e-service book and all processes/ information impacting service book from joining to retirement of an employee. This system can be accessed online (https://ehrms.gov.in/EhrmsWebApp/home) by using ICAR domain email credentials. The Leave and LTC module of e-HRMS has been made operational for the use of all staff members of ICAR Headquarters on 15 July 2021 and 20 October 2021 respectively. Land Record Management Information System (https://lrms.icar.gov.in): An online solution for Land Record Management of ICAR institutes was developed by IT Unit of IASRI in collaboration with ICT Unit of ICAR Headquarters and Director (Works). The information obtained from this system can be readily used for deciding the future policies for land management by the Council.