 A value chain mechanism has to be evolved for the betterment of farmers and consumers in large. Conclusion The analysis of the behaviour and perception of organic farmers, value addition centres and consumers in Palakkad reveal organic fruits and vegetables have huge potential inside and outside Kerala. The produce from Palakkad has got special geographical significance because of its unique topographic features especially mangoes, jackfruit and vegetables due to its off season production. As new generation retailing and food processing industry demand to link any fruits and vegetables from anywhere in the world at anytime, the support mechanism (i.e. the backend service) will be highly sought out from very professionally run organizations. So the value addition centres need to grow up according to the new age requirement which can benefit both organic farmers as well as consumers. Give the emerging demand for organic agricultural products abroad, development of domestic market is must not only to have possibilities of hedging risks but also to hone one’s instinct towards the green consumers. The certification agencies as well as APEDA will have a higher role to play with the emerging challenges for organic products, since the consumer perception and response will depend on the credibility of the offering agency. Another concern is the non-inclusion of farmers’ in the pricing mechanism. External calamities and erratic monsoons exacerbate the situation, resulting in hoarding, shortages and food inflation. The value chain has to expand itself to make available all those indigenous and exotic varieties of fruits and vegetables in the rural area to urban market, in a manner that will help the producers and users in large, in terms of quality, quantity based on a fair pricing method. The main revenue generation strategy for the organic farmers will be by sale of fruits and vegetables by linking the rural agricultural produce to the urban market as demanded and fetching maximum prices to the farmer groups thereby making available quality organic produce to the urban customers. Organizing farm tourism promotional events and arranging trips to the producer areas for the urban customers to interact with farmers will help these customers to have a better understanding of the modus operandi of these farms in turn working out a successful viable proposition for the farmers and consumers. For further interaction, please write to: Abhilash V, Agripreneur, Palakkad, Kerala. *Corresponding author email: abhilash@carrotventure.com. Organic spices A value chain analysis of three major spices–ginger, turmeric, and chilli in the north-eastern region–was done to work out comparative costs and returns, mapping of value chain actors and estimation of compliance cost, investment and margins along the value chains. The states having the highest areas under the selected spices were selected and compared with the state adopting organic production practices.