 The success of research programmes largely depends on the quality of research being carried out by the scientists. It is general experience that quite a number of scientific positions in Institutes remain unfilled for one reason or the other, thereby adversely affecting the research activities of the organization. There is, therefore, a need to have in place an alternate mechanism to augment the scientific manpower temporarily to carry out research work as well as to ensure continuity in research particularly in time bound research programmes. To address this, the Committee proposes that a scheme of ICAR Post-doctoral Fellowship, whereby services of young scientists 20 could be availed, be started. Bright Ph.D scholars can accordingly be engaged under the scheme initially for a period not exceeding two to three years on a fixed remuneration or regular scale. In no case, their services be extended beyond five years under this scheme. A pool of bright Ph.D. scholars (both from within India and abroad) be maintained and their services hired by the Institutes as and when needed. This will not only ensure timely completion of research programmes but will also provide an opportunity to the young and talented scholars to join the ICAR system and work in highly challenging scientific projects of great national importance. It is suggested that to begin with, a provision of about 200 ICAR Post- doctoral Fellowships be made in the next Five Year Plan and these be allotted to various institutions on their justified demands. 6.10 Introduction of Competitive Research Grant Scheme In the past, the ICAR followed a system of funding ad-hoc research schemes for addressing critical areas of research out of AP Cess Funds. This scheme had turned out to be a great success and had encouraged scientists all over India to address new challenges and location specific problems which produced valuable results. It not only provided opportunities to all the scientists across the National Agricultural Research System to undertake focused research in their own areas of specialization but also brought about better co-ordination and integration while addressing critical gaps. The AP Cess funds is no longer in existence. Therefore, there is a strong need to look for an alternate arrangement whereby ICAR may continue to sponsor such ad-hoc research schemes in order to sustain this mode of short run high impact research. The ICAR may evolve a Competitive Research Grant Scheme on the lines of AP Cess Fund for sponsoring short term research projects for 3 years period (maximum upto 5 years) in key areas of research as is being done currently under the National Agricultural Innovation Project (NAIP), and also by the Department of Science & Technology (DST) and the Department of Biotechnology (DBT). We propose that ICAR initiates a competitive Research Grant Scheme in the Twelfth Five Year Plan by allocating ` 200 crores initially.