 The inexpensive technology of collecting rainwater and its use during the months of water shortage is becoming popular in the region. Low-cost water harvesting structure The region’s upland receives an average annual rainfall of >2000 mm and almost 70% of it occurs during the monsoon. Constructing low-cost (`17000–25000) water Indian Farming 14 April 2023 harvesting structures like, jalkund of volume 30–90 m3 before the onset of monsoon can store nearly 30000– 94000 litres of rainwater (free of sediments) from upper catchments. Its minimum shelf life is about 3 years and every year 450 m2 of winter vegetables and other produce (10–13 quintals) of agri-products can be irrigated which could fetch a remuneration of `27,000 annually from a jalkund of size 90 m3. Besides other basic indoor needs, off-season water needs of livestock, including the fish can generate nearly `20,000 annually. Mulching Mulching is an age-old practice in this high rainfall region, but the practice is not followed widely by the farmers of the region. Lack of knowledge and awareness of the benefits of mulching is a major reason for its low adoption. Bio-mulching: Using biomass of weed/crop residues as mulch, alters in situ water balance component, specifically reducing the evaporation, while increasing the infiltration and percolation of rain water in the root zone (profile moisture recharge). It also helps in reducing splash erosion, surface run-off and evaporation. During decomposition, the succulent biomass adds nutrients to the soil that improves soil aggregation and modifies the structural pore geometry to retain water for a longer duration. It also inhibits the weed growth and consequently reduces competition for water need. In farmers field (East Khasi Hills, Meghalaya), use of fresh mixed weed biomass as mulch in vegetables (e.g. cabbage, cauliflower, radish, carrot and kehl rabi), during 2019 increased the yield by 23.9–50.0% over non- mulched crops. Long duration (April–January) spice crops like turmeric is grown rainfed in sloping highlands. Research results from the ICAR Research Complex for NEH revealed that, on application of succulent mixed weed biomass (@5.0 tonnes/ha, fresh weight basis), twice (pre-monsoon and monsoon month) in the life cycle of the crop, increases the yield of rhizome by 2 fold (17.0 tonnes/ha), relative to non- mulch crop. Similarly, crop water productivity (fresh rhizome yield per unit of rain water) increased by 95% over non-mulched crop. One of the reason is the improvement in the soil hydro-physical health (as profile moisture was 7–11% in the upper 45 cm depth during water-stressed periods), better soil aggregation (19– 21% higher mean weight diameter), and 16–18% higher hydraulic conductivity in the top 30 cm soil depth. Stone mulching: In steeply sloping eroded (vegetative coverless) highlands, a rocky surface devoid of real soils, filled with stones, gravel and rocks is exposed abundantly.