 This enabled the nation not only to be food and nutrition secure but also improved livelihood of the farmers. ADMINISTRATION Filling up of vacant posts During the year, the following posts were filled up under the promotion quota: 14 Director/Joint Director cum Registrar, two Director (F)/Comptroller, five Deputy Director (F)/Chief Finance and Accounts Officer, 11 Deputy Secretary and nine Chief Administrative Officer, 21 Senior Finance and Accounts Officer, 21 Under-Secretaries, 30 Senior Administrative Officer, 12 Principal Private Secretary, 34 Administrative Officer, 24 Finance and Accounts Officer, 23 Section Officers, 12 Private Secretary, two Assistant, and three LDC at ICAR Headquarters. Financial upgradation granted under MACP scheme During the year, 61 eligible officers and staff of ICAR (Headquarters) were granted the benefits of financial up-gradation under the Modified Assured Career Progression scheme in accordance with the Government of India (Department of Personnel and Trainings) instructions in this regard. Finance The Revised Estimates in respect of DARE/ICAR for 2020-21 was ` 7762.38 crores. An internal resources of ` 273.40 crores (including interest on Loans & Advances, income from Revolving Fund Schemes and interest on Short Term Deposits) was generated during the year 2020-21. The total allocation Budget Estimates for 2021-22 is ` 8513.62 crores. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT UNIT Innovation Management Patents: During the period under report 70 new patent applications were filed in different sectors of agriculture at Indian Patent Office (IPO). Filing of applications has been rising since 2017-18. Further, ICAR’s cumulative number of granted patents has risen to 408 with grant of 52 patents by IPO from 26 ICAR institutes. Varietal registrations: Plant Varieties and Farmers’ Rights Authority (PPV&FRA) granted registration certificates for 58 varieties (55 extant and 3 new) during this period. The cumulative figure of registered varieties is 1,360. Copyrights: Research outcomes including software, books, research reports and other creative activities were protected under copyright act by filing 59 applications. A total of 301 copyrights have been registered from different ICAR institutes. Designs: Sixteen applications were filed by ICAR- CIFT, Cochin, ICAR-CMFRI, Cochin, NINFET, Kolkata, and ICAR-NRC on Mithun, Nagaland. These included: (i) Fish freshness sensor; (ii) Fish smoking kiln; (iii) Hot air assisted continuous infrared dryer; (iv) Meat and shell separating machine for clams; and (v) Banana pseudo-stem fiber extractor. A total of 73 filed design applications have been registered. Trademarks: Twenty two Trademark applications were filed in different products and brand names, viz.