 This technique is eco-friendly for sustainable vegetable production and by using resistant rootstock, it reduces dependence on agrochemicals. To induce resistance against low and high temperatures, grafts were generally used. Grafting increases the yield and promotes biotic/abiotic stress tolerance. Grafting is also used to induce tolerance to abiotic stresses viz. flooding, drought and salinity. In Japan (92%), Korea (98%) and China (20%), major share in watermelon production is from grafted seedlings. In Europe, Spain is leading in grafted seedlings production with 129 million grafted seedlings followed by Italy (47 million grafted seedlings) and France (28 million grafted seedlings). Grafting as a technology for the commercial production of vegetables was later on adopted by many countries in Europe, Middle Step-wise One cotyledon grafting (OCG) method followed in cucurbits Step-wise Hole insertion graft (HIG) method followed in watermelon Indian Horticulture 44 East, Northern Africa, Central America and other parts of Asia. In India, vegetable grafting work was first started in IIHR Bengaluru by Dr RM Bhatt and his associates. Their work was on identification of rootstocks for waterlogged conditions. For this purpose they have imported semi- automated grafting machine. IIHR Bengaluru organized first ever short course on vegetable grafting during the year 2013. Later on at many places work on vegetable grafting was started in a scattered manner. NBPGR regional station, Thrissur, Kerala have done work on Cucurbit grafting by taking Momordica cochinchinensis, a dioecious plant. The female plants were grafted on to the male plants to increase its production. Graft success was 98%. SAUs and ICAR institutes like CSKHPKV, Palampur; ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi; ICAR-CAZRI, Jodhpur also initiated work on grafting and identified more than 22 rootstocks of brinjal, chilli, tomato and cucurbits for importing resistance to bacterial wilt and nematodes. Some private players are also involved in vegetable grafting. One of them is ‘VNR Seed Private Limited’ in Chhattisgarh which is supplying grafted brinjal seedlings resistant to bacterial wilt to farmers. The other seed company is TAKII SEED INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED and very recently CCSHAU has also established a vegetable grafting nursery in public private partnership with VNR Seeds at Hisar, Haryana. Recently Center for Protected Cultivation Technology, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, New Delhi has started working on evaluation of different rootstocks and their suitability for vegetable grafting and in near future grafted plants will be made available to the farmers also. Grafting techniques One-cotyledon grafting This method is common method used for watermelon and melons in Korea, Europe and North America. This method is also known as the splice graft, and was originally developed by Japanese engineers for use with automated grafting.