 For poultry eggs, which take ~ 21 days to hatch, the relative humidity should be ~ 60% during the first 18 days and 70% during the last 3 days for optimal hatchability. In forced draft-type incubators, the temperature requirement decreases as humidity increases. Eggs should be loaded into the incubator with the broad end up. Hatchability decreases when eggs are placed with the narrow end up because the embryo develops with its head in the small end. Turning the eggs in the incubator improves hatchability. Eggs should be turned at least 4 times a day if done manually. Modern incubators are equipped with automatic turning devices that turn the eggs at least 8 times or more within 24 hours. The egg trays turn through an angle of 90°. No turning is required after 18 days of incubation. Using a separate hatcher improves hatchability by maintaining a temperature of about 98°F and a relative humidity of 70 to 80% during the last few days. Separate hatchers also facilitate cleaning, disinfection, and fumigation without disturbing other eggs. Testing of incubated eggs: Candling is used to test incubated eggs from the fifth to seventh days to remove infertile eggs and again on the 18th day to remove dead embryos. While infertile eggs or eggs with dead embryos do not serve any purpose, removing them makes space available for setting more eggs. In most commercial hatcheries, candling is done on the 17th or 18th day to save labour. Depending on the light passage through the egg, they are classified as infertile (transparent), dead germ (translucent), or live embryos (opaque). Only eggs with live embryos are transferred to the hatcher. Hatchery management: Before the start of the hatching season, incubators and hatchers should be thoroughly checked for functionality and any defects should be rectified. They must be cleaned, disinfected, and fumigated to kill disease organisms. Fumigation is usually done with formaldehyde gas using 40 mL of 40% commercial formalin and 20 g of potassium permanganate for each 2.8 m³ of space inside the incubator or hatcher. Potassium permanganate is placed in a glass or earthenware container, and formalin is poured over it. Fumigation should be done at the end of the working day, and the rooms should be closed overnight. It is good practice to start the incubator and hatcher at least 24 hours before setting the eggs to ensure a constant temperature. Personnel working in the hatchery should use showers, and change clothes and shoes before entering to maintain hygiene. The receipt of eggs from the farm and the delivery of chicks should be managed separately to reduce infection risks. In areas with unreliable electricity, a standby generator is recommended to ensure a continuous power supply, as incubators must operate 24/7 during the incubation period.