 Thus, it seems that both tobacco-soaked water and endosulphan are equally good in controlling shoot and fruit borer in brinjal and economically viable for production of brinjal. Conclusion Results of the experiments conducted for 3 years reveal that tobacco-soaked water is effective in controlling shoot and fruit borers of brinjal, as claimed by the discloser. Further, tobacco-soaked water has no adverse effect on human health and soil, like chemical pesticides as reported by the respondents. 5.6 Protection of cabbage from pests Description of the ITK Cabbage is one of the important cash crops of Shimla district. In cabbage plants a special type of pest spoils the inner portion of cabbage, the cabbage remains loose, and ultimately plant falls down. Ash and cow urine are used to protect cabbage plants from insect pests. This ITK is useful to check insect pests and also to enhance cabbage productivity. Cow urine may have same chemical that may have insecticidal properties. Name and address of the discloser Shri Devkant Prakash, village Bhagheog, P.O. and tehsil Theog, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 201. Location of use of the ITK This ITK is prevalent in Theog area of Shimla district in Himachal Pradesh. This area forms a part of high hills temperate wet Himalayan region and lies between the longitudes 77°-0” and 78°-19” east and latitudes 3O°-45” and 31 °-44”. This zone is physiographically a mountainous tract with terraces. Mainly dry farming is practised and soil is shallow, silt to loam in texture and acidic in nature. This zone at Tobacco-soaked water treated brinjal crop in village Gularia Tari 18 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture present contributes to about 96% of the total temperate fruit production. Apple is the most predominant fruit grown in the zone. Experimenters Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla 171 005, Dr. L.R. Verma, Vice-Chancellor, Shri Chamanlal and Shri Sanjeev Noel, Scientific Assistant, Himachal Pradesh University, Summer Hill, Shimla 171 005, Himachal Pradesh, and Shri Devkant Prakash, village Bhagheog, P. O. and tehsil Theog, Shimla 171 201 (Himachal Pradesh), Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bangalore and Dr. P Ganeshan and P. N. Krishna Moorty, Principal Scientists, IIHR, Hessargahtta, Lake Post, Banglore 560 089 (Karnataka). Results and discussion Data obtained during 2002 from the experiments conducted in Himachal Pradesh showed that there was significant decline in aphid population in cabbage after 10 days of treatment by aged cow urine. Full control of aphid population was obtained after 35 days in urine treatment. These findings, show a strong indication of effectiveness of cow urine compared with other treatments. The performance of cow urine has been due to phenol, paracresol, catechol, orcinol, halogenated phenol and 2, 5-phenyl phenol, etc. which are known to be antibacterial, antifungal and antibiotic which might be insecticidal in view of these findings. of 10 and 20% respectively.