 The target of producing 125 million tonnes potatoes in India by 2050 needs to be addressed with planned potato research and development solutions during next three decades. Currently potato is being consumed mainly as a vegetable by the entire population (~1.30 billion) of India. It is projected to increase to ~1.62 billion during 2050, out of which more than 840 million would be living in cities (against the current 375 million). Besides, much higher proportion of working women and nuclear families would totally transform the demographic structure of India. Incidentally this change will be conducive for higher demand for potato (as vegetables and fast food ingredients) and processed potato products in the future. Fast increment in per capita as well as total household consumption of potato in India during recent past is expected to sustain in the foreseeable future; hence, there is great potential of enhancing potato production in the country. The gradual shift of potato cultivation from developed nations to the developing ones provides great scope of potato exports in the future for countries like India. Strong existing potato research and development base and adequate preparedness for future challenges is expected to provide requisite support to the future needs of potato industry in India. Application of new science in the fields of bio-technology, nanotechnology, genomics, phenomics, diagnostics, precision farming, aeroponics, ICT, GIS and remote sensing has already been successfully demonstrated by ICAR-CPRI. We expect these areas to serve the cause of future potato R&D in a big way. The available physical and scientific infrastructure at ICAR-CPRI is enough for not only further accelerate potato R&D momentum at national level but also for emerging as a leading global player, especially in the tropics and subtropics. However, sustained efforts will be made to upgrade these facilities and pursue rigorous human resource development at the institute level. For further interaction, please write to: Rajesh K Singh (Principal Scientist) (Ex Head and PS, ICAR-CPRI, Shimla), ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 305. *Corresponding author email: rjan_1971@yahoo.co.in Some of the recent potato varieties developed by ICAR-CPRI, Shimla Kufri Lima Kufri Neelkanth Kufri Thar-1 Kufri Thar-2 Kufri Ganga Kufri Manik Kufri Thar-2 Kufri Sangam Kufri Karan Kufri FryoM Kufri Garima Kufri Lalit Kufri Sahaydri Kufri Chipsona-4 Kufri Gaurav Kufri Mohan Indian Horticulture 62 Prospects of tomato breeding for processing in India Tomato is mostly used as fresh vegetable and very little (<1%) in processed form. Hence, breeding tomato varieties suitable for processing is very essential. The early breeding efforts developed varieties, but now they do not meet the industrial standards. Recently, two hybrids have been developed by ICAR-IIHR, Bengaluru, and some new improved lines, bred by WVC, Taiwan, have been imported to India by ICAR-IIVR for research purpose.