 The NIR and SWIR bands were selected for the NDMI and equation, to mitigate the effects of illumination and atmosphere. The short-wave infrared is sensitive to the vegetation, water content and the mesophyll structure of the leaves. On the other hand, the near-infrared picks up the bright reflectance of the leaf internal structure and the leaf’s dry matter content. When combined, measurements of the water content of the vegetation are substantially more accurate. NDMI can also be used for precision variable rate irrigation, which saves resources by watering only those plants that lack moisture. Precision irrigation management using soil moisture data: Soil moisture data can be obtained in several ways; viz. sensors-based soil moisture data in the field or satellite-based images. The use of sensors involves ongoing maintenance expenditures and equipment management. On the other hand, regardless of cloud covers satellite photography, it is a trustworthy method for gathering data on soil moisture. The EOSDA crop monitoring contains data on root zone and surface soil moisture, collected by satellite spectral sensors. Any field, anywhere in the world can have its soil moisture data checked, both, current and historical. Precipitation data and normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) will allow tracking of the correlation between rainfall and moisture levels in the field. Point source drip irrigation Drip irrigation Source: Indiamart Indian Farming 23 April 2023 Precision irrigation management using weather forecast: EOSDA monitoring provides a weather forecast for each field during the next 14 days. Accurate weather predictions assist in determining, when watering activities are required to maintain the proper soil moisture for the crops. Farmers will conserve resources by delaying watering activities in anticipation of the impending down-pours. Moreover, EOSDA crop monitoring automatically notifies changes in field such as adjustments to the vegetation indices or impending weather anomalies (cold and heat stress). By executing tasks in the field, the automatic notifications assist in preventing key moments from being missed. Farmer-friendly mobile app- based operation: Precision irrigation water management is being quickly adopted in India, because of recent advancements in digital farming systems. The majority of Indian farmers use android-based smartphones, which means that in the future, widespread adoption of mobile-based automation and sensor-based precision irrigation is possible. The mobile app integrated smart irrigator and the blink app is effective examples of mobile app and web app applications in India that irrigation aid in remote monitoring and control of irrigation. Drone-based water stress monitoring: There is a huge scope for drone-based irrigation monitoring and identification of variable plant stress zones.