 Surface seeding has been reported to give higher yield and also reduce the cost of field preparation. Reduced tillage is practiced using a tractor driven rotavator which fluffs up the top layer of the soil superficially followed by surface seeding. Reduced tillage also requires adequate moisture in the soil and has been reported to produce additional yield and reduced weeds mainly due to the fact that early planting is possible in this system. Addressing the knowledge gaps which exist in zero- tillage’s livelihood, socio-economic and environmental impacts would enhance sustainability in a cost effective and equitable manner. Alternate wetting and drying (AWD) This is an upcoming advanced water management technique which is practiced in irrigated low-land rice cultivation, which consumes much less water than the traditional system of rice cultivation maintaining continuous standing water in the field. In this method of irrigation, water is applied a few days after the first flooding. Following this, the field is kept flooded and non- flooded alternatively in intervals of 1 to more than 10 days depending on weather, crop growth stage and soil type. The critical water level can be monitored in the field by using a pani-pipe which is a 30 cm long and 10–15 cm wide perforated pipe. Apart from the major advantage of reduced water requirement, AWD also prevents nutrient loss and if properly practiced, improves plant growth parameters like number of tillers, biomass, plant height, number of panicles, 1000 grain weight, grain yield and quality. It has also been reported that the adoption of alternate wetting and drying (AWD) technique in rice reduces the incidence of brown plant hopper (BPH) in rice. However, the mitigation potential of AWD depends on its proper execution and monitoring. Incomplete drainage causes negligible reduction of greenhouse gases emission. If properly practiced, AWD is able to reduce wastage of irrigation water by up to 30% without compromising on yield. AWD has also been reported to reduce methane emissions by 43%. This method is most suitable for lowland rice growing areas where soil can be drained easily at 5-day intervals. For efficient application of AWD, proper coordination among farmers, irrigation authorities, and local government is critical. The incentive for farmers so that they are able to adopt AWD varies according to the irrigation scheme available locally. Overall, AWD should not be seen as an isolated package/scheme. It has to be efficient with suitable land management practices, nutrient availability and pest management for this technology to achieve a sustainable economic benefit. Use of paani-pipe to monitor the water level in rice fields for AWD method of irrigation Source: http://www.knowledgebank.irri.