 Dose of 100 g/animal from 3-4 weeks before calving may be given along with concentrate feeds. Overall, 35% increase in profitability has been recorded through increase of 14% in milk production and 70% reduction in cases of milk fever by the use of Anionic mineral mixture. Feeding strategies for enhancing functional/designer food production: The CLA content was increased by 300% in milk by dietary manipulation (Tyagi et al. 2007). Green fodder increases the CLA, vitamin A and E contents in goat milk (Tyagi et al. 2008). Buffaloes fed with mustard oil and cake in the diet enhanced 185% CLA in milk and milk products (Kathirvelan and Tyagi 2007). Supplementation of hen’s diet with a higher amount of Se resulted in production of Se enriched eggs for better human nutrition. Gut microbiome and dietary probiotics and prebiotics: Subsequent to the studies conducted at ICAR institutes, novel supplements like probiotics, prebiotics, gut acidifiers, emulsifiers are being used for improving nutrient utilization in gut. It was also concluded that the incorporation of Mannan oligosaccharides (MOS) and Lactobacillus acidophilus in diet either individually or in combination as symbiotic was found to improve the performance Achievements in Livestock and Poultry Production in Independent India 155 in Murrah buffalo calves (Sharma et al. 2018). Gut microbiome of indigenously developed commercial broiler, backyard cross, and Kadaknath as well as Guinea fowl exhibited the higher proportion of bacterial moieties conferring disease resistance rather than growth or fat deposition (Saxena et al. 2015, Vineetha et al. 2016, Harshini 2021). Vinay (2019) concluded that faecal origin probiotics served as a potential candidate for augmenting neonatal gut health and designing probiotic consortium for Murrah buffalo calves. Ameliorating mycotoxins in poultry diets: Toxic effects of aflatoxin (300 µg kg-1) were alleviated by incorporating poly unsaturated fatty acid-rich vegetable oil, activated charcoal, ascorbic acid, liver tonic, etc. in broiler diet. Vegetable oils rich in unsaturated fatty acids (soybean or sunflower oil) could be used to completely alleviate aflatoxin in broiler diet. Dietary supplementation of Spirulina (0.02%), herbal vitamin C, MOS partially alleviated, while vegetable oil (3%) completely alleviated the ill effects of aflatoxicosis (300 ppb) in commercial broilers. Make feed software: A window-based user-friendly software developed at CARI, Izatnagar for formulation of low-cost poultry ration using locally available feed ingredients. The software helps the feed manufacturer and poultry farmers for least cost ration preparation for poultry. 6. Assisted Reproductive Techniques (ARTs) The ARTs include several advanced reproductive technologies such as artificial insemination (AI), multiple ovulation and embryo transfer (MOET), in-vitro fertilization (IVF) and sperm sexing.