 These relationships, among the different types of organizations that operate and interact with the agroindustry production chain, tend to affect the dynamics of the production chain, the access to international markets. Nonetheless, the farmer collectives would be the ones who ultimately gained more benefit from these negotiations, instead of the fragmented farmers. Connecting farmers to overseas market Linking the farmers’ collectives to the overseas market is also relevant as Agro value chains are buyer-driven. We have an army of FPOs/Cooperatives who are organized, coordinated, and can control the activities that reach the global consumer market through their core competencies of local products which has huge demand. Therefore, in the context of a GVC, with support of G20 negotiations our collectives may become the ones who define the rules of the game and appropriate for the largest shares of the gains derived from agricultural production with collaborative effort of state and civil society. Despite the above-mentioned, the economic activity of these collectives is gaining a lot of public interest, for that the United Nations General Assembly declared 2023 as the International Year of Millets. Farmers led GVC will serve as means for linking local producers from developing countries to international markets However, it is relevant to discuss the opportunities and challenges that come across this engagement, to analyze if it is beneficial for small farmers, lead firms or even public institutions. Many countries are intending to embrace a wide and diverse range of stakeholders in their design. In 2023, while chairing the G20 negotiations it’s worth remembering the hymn of Rig veda which means “Let us speak together, let our thoughts be one, let us be of one mind. Let the place be common, Assembly be common, Mind and thought be common. Let the resolve be the same, and the mind be of one accord. May we live in harmony and agreement. It will be true tribute to the leaders who have shaped making Indian value chain democratic. Let us carry forward this legacy! Though it is early to determine how widespread this will be. It is also not yet clear how inclusive this process will turn out to be. The participation of the relevant civil society actors may normally be vital to enable the farmer’s collective voices to be fully expressed and heard. This takes thought and planning of this momentous period to rejig the phrase “the Wonder that was Farming System of India”. SUMMARY The diplomacy of agribusiness needs a systemic perspective on how institutions, policies, value chains and global value chains interplay for the benefit of small farmers into global value chains. The delivery to the final consumer and share of the producer in the process of agri value chain requires attention of non- government actors in a big way. Linking the farmers’ collectives to the overseas market is also relevant as Agro value chains are buyer-driven.