 Bean crop improvement, nutrition and abiotic stress management: These aspects are being taken up with the Indian Institute of Pulse Research. Rajmah, Barbatti and ‘’Kholar are popular beans in India, of which, both dry grains as well as green pods are used as vegetable. While Rajmah is popular throughout the country, Barbatti is a preferred item among tribal populations and ‘Kholar’, is popular in the north-eastern region of the country. Kholar is believed to be a kind of Rajmah and Barbatti, a kind of climber cowpea. In view of the importance of the Rajmah in human nutrition, CIAT has developed bio-fortified (Zn, Cu and Fe rich) varieties and breeding lines and have provided them to the Indian Institute of Pulse ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 16 Research for evaluation and further breeding to suit the local conditions. This set of material also has other desirable characteristics, such as higher yield, short duration, mildew resistance, and frost tolerance. As the development of new material is continued at CIAT, based on the response and feedback from the previous assessment, new material will also be provided to the IIPR for multi- location testing. The Kholar germplasm has been collected from Nagaland and Mizoram and the seeds of 22 accessions, having varied grain size, color and cooking quality been purified and are being assessed through multi-location trials in these states. While the research on Rajmah and Kholar (as a sub-set of Rajmah) will be continued, studies on Barbatti will be taken up in subsequent seasons. Inclusion of ICAR institutions (e.g. CTCRI, IGFRI, NBPGR, IIPR, and others) for capacity building CIAT has included ICAR scientists from CTCRI, National Research Centre for Banana, IGFRI and IARI in various programs and interactions, including the Big data analysis concepts and protocols. The CTCRI staff was engaged in the national cassava research planning at CTCRI, and one of its staff was among participants in the Value chain development in Cassava in Laos. Similarly, the CTCRI staff was engaged in a two-day planning workshop by CIAT Cassava Physiologist at CTCRI in January 2020. The National Research Centre for Banana staff participated in Phenomics design and operations demonstration at the centre, and IARI staff in the Big Data analysis applications at Hyderabad. In continued efforts, CIAT has also in the past trained 15 CTCRI scientists at CIAT HQ and other regions in different innovative technologies, such as marker assisted selection, crop modelling, etc. The entire IGFRI staff has recently (January 2020) been engaged on a three-day workshop at Jhansi on the research strategy and planning for forages research. The workshop was conducted by a team of five CIAT scientists. Similarly, three sub-training programs in Digital Agriculture, viz., a viz Assessing Regional Challenges and Opportunities, Digital Agronomy, and Digital Phenomics have been prepared to be conducted in 2020 at Hanoi, Cali, and India, respectively.