 Till date, activities undertaken are strengthening key digital infrastructures of the ICAR-AU system, such as the establishment of virtual classrooms at 18 AUs and effective implementation of the Agri-DIKSHA web channel, which has more than 20,000 e-contents developed and uploaded by partner AUs, the establishment of AR/VR labs at 10 partner AUs, the launch of KVC-Alnet and facilitate the AUs for ensuring the alum registration (so far more than 43,000 alumni have been registered on the portal), etc. are some of the key initiatives undertaken by Component-2 of the project. The major activities and achievements under the Monitoring and Learning component include Process Evaluation and Dipstick Surveys such as assessing the Graduate Income Index of 1-year graduate student, assessment of the measurable intermediate outcomes through mid-line survey specifically on facilitative units, development and implementation of AU Implementation Performance Scoreboard (AUIPS), satisfaction mapping of direct project beneficiaries, organizing M&E visits to select AUs, etc. In addition, PIU has also taken various initiatives to enhance the learning outcomes, such as Waste to Wealth and linking entrepreneurship, Clean and Green Awards, KRITAGYA AgTech Hackathon, Promoting Resilient Agricultural Education System (RAES), and Strategic study to assess the requirement of human resources in agriculture and allied fields for next 20 years, etc. The infrastructure developed, teaching, learning and skill upgradation initiatives under NAHEP are very much aligned with the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020 formulated by the Government of India. ICAR-National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM) Research and Policy Advocacy: As a think tank of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) in the field of agriculture, the Academy has been contributing policy briefs and documents on a wide range of issues of national and global importance, viz. Curriculum Development Framework for Agricultural Education, National Agricultural Higher Education Project – Component 2, FPOs in India: Creating Enabling Ecosystem for their Sustainability, Strengthening Kisan Call Centres in India, Attracting the best talent to agricultural education in India, Bioinformatics in Agriculture, Empanelment of Product Engineering Firms: Towards Co-Development of IT Solutions for Agricultural Sector Leveraging Private Sector Participation, Journey of a-IDEA in Shaping Agripreneurship Landscape in India and Guidelines for Incubators. Since November 2021, 44 research papers, 7 book chapters, 9 popular articles and 6 books were published. The 26th Institute Research Council (IRC) was conducted virtually on February 2nd and 3rd, 2022 and currently 17 in-House and 9 extra mural projects are ongoing at the academy. Three copyrights have been registered and 2 copyrights are filed.