 courses in different agricultural universities in the academic year 2016-17. ICAR • The ICAR Audit Manual was thoroughly revised, updated and published in December 2015. This handbook is a useful reference text not only for Finance and Account Officers, but for the Drawing and Disbursing Officers, Head of Office and authorities holding Research Management Position (RMP). • An initiative was taken by the Additional Secretary (DARE) and Financial Advisor (ICAR) to hold interactive meeting with the Finance Officers of ICAR institute on zonal basis to address issues related to old audit paras, advances, items pending, the Bank reconciliation statement and review of Plan and Non- Plan Expenditure. Three rounds of such Interactive Meeting have already been conducted successfully. The first round of such meeting was conducted during September-December 2015. The second round of meeting was conducted during April-May 2016 and third round concluded during August-October 2016. The outcome of this interaction has been quite useful leading in settlement of audit paras especially old audit paras and advances through persistent pursuance and monitoring. Out of 992 pending audit paras of the Local Audit Report, 349 (35%) have been settled from September 2015 to September 2016. • The exercise of tabling the Annual Account of the ICAR for 2015-2016 before both the Houses of Parliament along with the Separate Audit Report was completed in a time bound manner without any delay. There have been no PAC audit paras with regard to ICAR which is an achievement. • The Internal Inspection for 2014-2015 of 114 ICAR units of the Council was undertaken during 2015-2016 by ICAR (Hqrs) and completed successfully. SWACHHTA PAKHWADA DARE/ICAR The Department of Agricultural Research and Education/Indian Council of Agricultural Research celebrated Swachhta Pakhwada from 16 to 31 October 2016. The ICAR (Headquarters) in New Delhi, all ICAR Research Institutes and all Krishi Vigyan Kendras took active part in Swachhta Pakhwada activities and conducted a wide range of activities which included, cleaning of campuses, residential areas, villages and localities in the vicinities in addition to conducting seminars, awareness camps, rallies, street plays and expert talks. Through KVKs promotion of Swachhta activities was done in more than 3,040 villages with the active participation of farmers and village youths. Farmers were made aware of clean farming technologies and Rajbhasha Alok, 2015 was released by Shri Radha Mohan Singh, Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 144 package of practices and make best use of the farm waste. Technology options available with the ICAR institutes for converting waste to wealth were showcased by the ICAR Institutes on this occasion.