 It also has the largest area cultivated with wheat, rice, and cotton, as well as the largest herd of cattle (buffaloes). Producing fruit, vegetables, tea, farmed fish, cotton, sugarcane, wheat, rice, cotton, and sugar, it ranks second in the world (Indian Agriculture Sector, Farming in India| IBEF). Agri-tech is one of the key investment areas for Indian investors focusing on AI since agriculture contributes more than 18% to the Indian economy. Fig 1: India trends: Annual contribution of agriculture and allied sector to GDP and Nominal GVA of agriculture and allied sector (INR Trillion) Application of AI in Agriculture Sector in India. https://iaeme.com/Home/journal/IJAIRD 155 editor@iaeme.com Source: https://static.investindia.gov.in/s3fshttps://static.investindia.gov.in/s3fs-public/2021- 11/agri_report.pdfpublic/2021-11/agri_report.pdf The application of artificial intelligence (AI) in agriculture has advanced significantly since its initial attempt in 1985. By 2026, the global value of AI in agriculture is projected to reach USD 4 billion. Globally, the Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific, North America, Europe, and South America make up the six main regions that make up the worldwide market for AI in agriculture. Because of its early adoption of cutting-edge technologies for various agricultural operations, North America has emerged as the greatest market for AI in agriculture among them. Further, the European Union (EU) unveiled the largest civil funding initiative on robotics, Horizon 2020 (the EU's research and innovation funding program with a budget of almost EUR 80 billion), which prioritizes agri-food as one of the four application areas for the robotics program. With an expenditure of EUR 80 million, the EU has implemented the Internet of Food and Farm 2020 (IoF2020), DEMETER, Agricultural Interoperability and Analysis System (ATLAS), and SmartAgriHubs in an effort to digitize the agriculture sector. Technological innovation in the Agri-Tech space has increased recently in the food and agriculture sectors in Latin America and the Caribbean. AI and ML are also being used in agriculture at a rapid pace in nations like China and India. With a revenue share of 29.68% in 2019, the Asia Pacific region ranked second to North America in the agri-food business. This market is projected to continue growing as a result of the ongoing technological revolution in the agri-food sector.(PwC, 2022) Advancements in Agriculture The growth and development of agriculture can be broadly divided into four phases in terms of time period. (India Beyond 75: Envisioning Smart & Sustainable Agriculture | 1, n.d.) → The 1950s: Agricultural output increased slowly during this time due to shortage and stagnant production. The yield of food grain in 1950–51 was only 50.8 Mn MT, or 522 kg/ha. → The 1960s-1980s It was the era of Green Revolution.