 Habit Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English names Botanical names Active ingredients Geographical indications 147 Silkworm-disease management Volume 2, page 140 Parthenium and Tridax Tridax: Kannada: gabbu sanna savanthi, nettu gabbu savanthi; Tamil: vettu-kkaaya-thalai; Telugu: raavanaasurudita-lakaai, kampu-chemanti. Tridax: Mexican daisy, coatbuttons Parthenium: Parthenium hysterophorus Linn. Tridax: Tridax procumbens Linn. Parthenium: It is reported to be a tonic, febrifuge, emmenagogue and as an analgesic in neuralgia. Decoction of root is given in dysentery. Tridax: The leaf juice possesses antiseptic, insecticidal and parasiticidal properties. It is used to check haemorrhage from cuts, bruises and wounds. The flowers contain luteolin, glucoluteolin, quercetin and isoquercetin. Parthenium: A herb 1.0 m in height, occurs as an exotic weed in Poona in Maharashtra; in some places it has become noxious. Stem longitudinally grooved; leaves irregularly dissected, pubescent, flower- heads terminal or axillary, 5 mm in diameter, white; fruits broadly obovoid, dark brown. H Habit Tridax: A hispid, procumbent herb, with woody base, sometimes rooting at the nodes, up to 60 cm high, found as a weed up to an altitude of 2,400 m; leaves ovate lanceolate, 2-7 cmxM cm, lamina pinnatisect, sometimes 3-lobed; flowers in small, long peduncled heads; ray florets strap-shaped, white; disc florets yellow; achenes black, narrowly obconical, 2.0-2.5 mm long with feathery pappus. Inflorescence Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK 149 Pest and disease control in paddy and vegetable crops Volume 2, page 141 Pteris indica, Chloroxylon swietenia, Prosopis juliflora, Vitex negundo, Azadirachta indica and Nicotiana tabacum Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Chloroxylon: Gujarati and Marathi: bheria, billu; Hindi: bherul, bhirra, rakata-rohidi; Kannada: bittula, hurugulamare, mashalda; Oriya: behru; Tamil: karumboraju, kudavuboraju, poraju; Telugu: billu, billuakulu, billubanka, tella-bitlu. Prosopis : Bengali: shami; Gujarati: sami, semru, khijado, hamra, kandi; Hindi: jand, chaunkra, khar, khejra; Kannada: banni, perumbai; Malayalam: parampu, tambu; Marathi: shemri, saunder; Oriya: shami; Tamil: perumbay, jambu; Telugu: jammi chettu. Chloroxylon: Indian satin wood tree Chloroxylon: Chloroxylon swietenia DC. Prosopis : Prosopsis cineraria Druce Chloroxylon: The decoction of the bark is astringent and used for painful joints. The bark contains the alkaloids swiepenidins A and B, chloroxylin and chloroxylonine. Leaves are useful in rheumatism and smoke from the burning leaves drives away insects. Prosopis : The bark as well as galls formed on the leaves are used for tanning.