5% K on a dry weight basis. A good substrate should have a C: N ratio of 25–30:1, and 16–17:1 for final compost. In the initial stage of compost preparation, layers of paddy straw are put in a stack together with water, fertilizers, wheat bran, molasses, etc. The straw is properly combined with everything before being stacked. On the 2nd day, the stack is flipped and water is applied again. Gypsum is added and watered on the fourth day, when the stack is flipped once again for the second time. On the 12th day, when the colour of the compost turns dark brown and it begins to give off a potent ammonia odour, the third and final tuning is performed. The pasteurization phase is the next step in composting. In order to kill unwanted microorganisms, competitors and to turn ammonia into microbial protein, the compost created by the microbe-mediated fermentation process needs to be pasteurized. The final compost should have a granular structure, 70% moisture content and a pH of 7.5. Spawning: It is the process of combining spawn with compost. The various spawning techniques include: i) Spot Spawning: Spawning lumps are placed 20–25 cm apart in 5 cm deep hole dug in the compost. Later, compost is used to cover the holes. (ii) Surface Spawning: The spawn is blended to a depth of 3–5 cm after being equally distributed in the compost’s top layer. A thin layer of compost should be placed on top of the area. (iii) Layer spawning: Similar to surface spawning, 3–4 layers of prepared spawn is mixed with compost and then coated with a thin layer of compost. The spawn is mixed with compost at a rate of 7.5 ml/kg of compost, or 500–750 g/100 kg of compost (0.5–0.75%). Spawn running: After spawning, the compost is put into polythene bags (90 cm x 90 cm, 150 gauge thick, with a capacity of 20–25 kg/ bag)/trays (often wooden trays, 1 x 1/2 m, and allowing 20–30 kg composts)/shelves, covered with a newspaper sheet or polythenes. Fungal bodies take around two weeks (12–14 days) to colonize when they emerge from the spawn. The cropping chamber should kept at a constant temperature of 23±20ºC. Any temperature over that will hinder the spawn growth, while any temperature below that would slow down the spawn run. A CO2 content that is greater than usual would be advantageous and the relative humidity should be approximately 90%. Casing: To encourage fruiting, the compost beds should be covered with a layer of soil (casing) that is 3–4 cm deep. The casing material should be highly porous, capable of retaining water and have a pH between 7–7.5. Due to the lack of peat moss, mixing of garden loam soil and sand (4:1), decomposed cow dung and loam soil (1:1), spent compost (2–3 years old), sand and lime are frequently used. Before using, the casing soil should either be steam sterilized, treated with formaldehyde (2%), formaldehyde (2%) and bavistin (75 ppm), or pasteurized (at 66–700C for 7–8 hours).