 The excessive use of fertilizers not only generates health and pollution problems, but also affects the establishment of biological mechanisms used by legumes to cope with N2 deficiency in agricultural soils. 3. Lentil Nodulation As has been mentioned throughout this work, nodulation facilitates the fixation of atmospheric nitrogen and is caused by the interaction between legumes and rhizobia, which evolved approximately 58 million years ago and occurs in 88% of all legume species [37]. The interaction of legumes and rhizobia forms nodules, which provide an ideal environment for nitrogen fixation in exchange for the photosynthates provided by the plant. This is advantageous for legumes because they can grow in nitrogen-deficient soils. Like many other legumes, lentils can also form nodules, thus supplying nitrogen. Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. Vicia is one the most effective rhizobia for nodule formation in lentils [38]; however, other studies have suggested that lentils can also nodulate with Rhizobium etli [39] and Rhizobium laguerreae, as well as some unnamed species of the genus Rhizobium [40]. Agriculture 2024, 14, 103 5 of 15 In addition to the interactions between legumes and rhizobia, other bacteria, known as plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR), promote plant growth through various mechanisms, including phosphate solubilization and nitrogen fixation, as well as phytohor- mone production [41]. Some PGPR synthesize indole acetic acid (IAA), which controls plant growth and development by regulating the expression of various genes [42]. PGPRs also protect plants against abiotic stress by regulating tissue ethylene levels, which is achieved by producing the enzyme 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase. This enzyme sequesters and breaks down ACC, an ethylene precursor, thereby preventing high concentrations of this phytohormone in plant tissues [43]. Therefore, the co-inoculation of PGPRs with rhizobia potentiates the beneficial effects on legumes and crop soils. Sepúlveda-Caamaño et al. [44] isolated PGPRs from lentils to evaluate their effect on nodulation during co-inoculation with rhizobia from nine soils in the Mediterranean area. Among the 57 strains, 17 showed ACC deaminase activity, all producing IAA, and 38 were compatible with rhizobia. Using 16S rRNA sequencing, 10 strains were identified as Pseudomonas spp. The strains were then inoculated into lentil seedlings to evaluate nodulation. The LY50a strain showed increased early nodulation compared with plants only inoculated with rhizobia (AG-84). In another study and field experiments, increases in fresh biomass, grain production, straw production, pods per plant, dry weight of the nodule per plant, weight of 1000 grains, and nitrogen content in the lentil grains compared with the control were observed [45]. Co-inoculation of PGPR with rhizobia helps to mitigate the environmental and eco- nomic impacts caused by using nitrogenous fertilizers.