 In addition, efficient water management (EWM) is a key solution to the long-term viability of global food production and processing. EWM is essential for equitable water allocation, enhancing resilience to climate change and other shocks, especially addressing water scarcity. Also, it is considered one of the fundamental components for achieving sustainable development because its development intersects with multiple Sustainable Development Goals set by the United Nations, including clean water and sanitation (SDG 6), climate action (SDG 13), and sustainable cities and communities (SDG 11) [33]. Olatunde et al. [34] stated that historically, water management has been a critical component of human civilizations for millennia, evolving from simple agricultural irrigation systems in ancient times to complex networks of dams, canals, and water treatment facilities today. In the modern era, powered pumps, efficient water supply systems, filtration systems, and chemical treatment have vastly improved water quality and accessibility. However, challenges remain in equitable distribution and sustainable management. Additionally, EWM requires deep knowledge and modern problem-solving methods to enhance the WUE in agriculture. More likely is the modernization of existing irrigation systems to improve efficiency and to cater to the new technology. Sinwar et al. [35] reported that global water shortage problems can be solved by adopting EWM systems to irrigate more crops per area with low water consumption. Sprinkler and drip irrigation systems are low-water consumption-based irrigation techniques compared to surface irrigation methods. The main issue with these systems is that they need continuous human involvement to operate the methods (ON and OFF of valves and water pumps). Unlike traditional irrigation methods, sprinkler and drip irrigation systems are highly efficient and water-saving but require operators to run, control, and monitor them. The efficiency of these systems can increase by adding modern features or existing systems (precision technologies) to develop them as intelligent systems. Also, implementing these systems with surface irrigation methods can improve their efficiency and help manage equal water distribution among farmers (Such as water cards). Smart methods can help these systems perform their work without human intervention. The smart tools continuously monitor the water level in a field by predicting and comparing the available water content in soil and plants with ordinary Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 7 of 40 water needs. If the plant needs water, the system will automatically send commands to sprinklers or drips to start working until the crop water needs are fulfilled. In addition, the digital transformation of nearly every sector has been seen in recent years as the grand aim to get maximum output using minimum input. However, this digital transformation has positively influenced traditional agriculture and enhanced efficiency.