 Integration of Digital Twin (DT) and Generative Artificial Intelligence (Al) has emerged as promising technology in agricultural sector (Du et al.2023). By leveraging immersive virtual environments and Al- driven technologies, stakeholders in the agricultural sector may enhance productivity, sustainability, and resilience in farming practices while fostering global connectivity and knowledge exchange (Nie et al.2022). ! 1 ! ! ! ! ! i] DATA ; Physical Asset a Digital Twin 1 Sensor(s) a ee Computer ; 1 1 1 1 1 ; PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT VIRTUAL ENVIRONMENT Como nn naan a ne ne ne ne ae eee ee (Source: Neethirajan and Kemp, 2021) Figure 38: The relationship between digital twin and the physical asset TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 52 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 53 AI can be integrated with metaverse to enhance the agricultural education and facilitate virtual collaboration among stakeholders (Figure 39). Virtual training scenarios can simulate real-world field conditions and challenges, allowing farmers to gain practical skills. AI algorithms can power virtual marketplaces within the agricultural metaverse, where farmers can buy and sell agricultural products, equipment, and services. AI-driven collaborative platforms in the agricultural metaverse can facilitate virtual collaboration among researchers, agronomists, and agricultural experts from around the world. (Source: Rekimoto and Nagao (1995)) Figure 39: The framework of the extended metaverse agent, integrating the metaverse of virtual objects with XR/IoT environments Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Al can be integrated with metaverse to enhance the agricultural education and facilitate virtual collaboration among stakeholders (Figure 39). Virtual training scenarios can simulate real-world field conditions and challenges, allowing farmers to gain practical skills. Al algorithms can power virtual marketplaces within the agricultural metaverse, where farmers can buy and sell agricultural products, equipment, and services. Al-driven collaborative platforms in the agricultural metaverse can facilitate virtual collaboration among researchers, agronomists, and agricultural experts from around the world. (Cc) loT-Enabled Devices \ Mixed Reality Layer 3D Objects and Environment | . a wy Extended Metaverse Space Physical World Extended . metaverse —|\ Obiec! JMMEtQverse Agent ; Object O Virtual Virtual Ne Object Object J) (Source: Rekimoto and Nagao (1995)) Figure 39: The framework of the extended metaverse agent, integrating the metaverse of virtual objects with XR/loT environments TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 53 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 54 5.