 National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), Karnal (2008); Indian Institute of Horticulture Research (IIHR), Bengaluru (2008); National Academy for Agriculture Research and Management (NAARM) (2014); Indian Institute of Millet Research (IIMR), Hyderabad (2017); and Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), New Delhi (2018). Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana – Remunerative Approaches for Agriculture and Allied Sectors Rejuvenation (RKVY-RAFTAAR) is a unique scheme of Government of India, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare (MoA&FW). It is aimed at strengthening infrastructure in Agriculture and Allied sectors to promote Agripreneurship and Agribusiness by facilitating financial aid and nurturing a system of business incubation. Objectives RKVY-RAFTAAR • To achieve ‘‘Lab to land’’ by dissemination of new technology/ varieties to farmers through promoting a culture of Agri startups • To promote innovation, entrepreneurship and business creation in agriculture and allied sector by skill development, capacity building and technology scale up; • To create employment opportunities for youth in agriculture in the rural vicinity; • To promote an integrated approach for technology acquisition, R&D, commercial technology transfers and knowledge dissemination; Under this programme, 29 RABIs have been supported in agriculture research institutes, out for that five ICAR institutes got selected with above mentioned objectives, viz. Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), New Delhi (Knowledge Partner for RABI); Indian Institute of Millet Research (IIMR), Hyderabad; National Rice Research Institute (NRRI), Cuttack; Central Institute for Research on Cotton Technology (CIRCOT), Mumbai; and National Institute of Veterinary Epidemiology and Disease Informatics (NIVEDI), Bengaluru. Start-up Initiative in India The Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD) has implemented the Start-up Village Entrepreneurship Programme (SVEP), as a sub-scheme under Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM). This scheme was approved on 6th May 2015. The objective of the scheme is to help the rural poor to set-up enterprises at the village level in non-agricultural sectors. Besides providing start-up capital, a cadre of Community Resource Persons-Enterprise Promotion (CRP-EP) is set up to provide business support services to enterprises. As on 31st October, 2019, AAPs have been approved for 153 blocks across 23 States. DPRs have been approved in 120 blocks in 21 States. As per the approved DPRs, 1.93 lakh enterprises are targeted for formation over a 4-year period. As on 31st October, 2019, a total of 69,991 enterprises has been set up.