 Indian agricultural export has undergone significant changes during recent times. An attempt has been made to determine the causal relationships between India’s growth and India’s agricultural trade. We observed bidirectional causality between exports of tea, coffee, spices and fish with GDP and agricultural GDP both. The unidirectional causality exists between cotton exports and GDP, where cotton exports Granger cause GDP. Except cereals, all selected export categories Granger cause agricultural GDP. This designates that the growth in agricultural exports in general along with exports of specific commodities have led to the overall and agricultural growth of Indian economy. Analyses of export performance for various commodity groups during 2011–14 and 2015–18 categorized various exported commodities into highly competitive, competitive, weakly competitive and uncompetitive commodities. During 2011–18, rice, frozen bovine meat, cotton yarn, raw cotton, ginger, pepper and seed spices remained highly competitive commodities. Crustaceans emerged as highly competitive during 2015–18. The results indicate no change in export performance of the cereals during the period and they remained competitive. Although, within the commodity group the scenario is interesting, as rice (HS 1006) is the only commodity which is highly competitive for India; while maize (HS 1005) and wheat and meslin (HS 1001) are uncompetitive. Meat is dominated by the exports of frozen bovine meat, India enjoys competitiveness in its exports. The performance of the other two products, edible offal (HS 0206) and sheep and goat meat (HS 0204) improved in 2015–18, however, they still remained uncompetitive. The export performance of the fish and crustaceans, molluscs and other aquatic invertebrates (HS 03) remained weakly competitive throughout. India has emerged in the competiveness of the crustaceans (HS 0306), as the status changed from competitive during 2011–14 to highly competitive during 2015–18. Indian exports were USD 4,640 million in TE 2019 and the country is the largest crustacean exporter in the world followed by Ecuador and Canada with USA emerging as single major export destination for India. The revealed comparative advantage of India, Ecuador and Canada has increased over time. Interesting global linkages in crustacean competiveness are evident from the study. There is unidirectional causality from Canada to India’s RCA and Canada to Ecuador’s RCA. Further, the unidirectional causality is observed from Indian crustacean export to RCA India. India can reap further gains through further competitiveness enhancement and strengthening international market intelligence efforts. The export of crustacean products holds tremendous importance as the country is the prime exporter in the world in this category. Improving the competitiveness in this category would further help enhance the Indian exports and strengthen its global presence.