 Irrigation expansion can greatly increase yields, cropping intensity and the production of high value crops. We need to rethink irrigation and crop technology, going beyond tubewells and large dams. India has over 5200 dams. We have always treated large dams with great reverence, even though they come with high environmental and human cost. And we have neglected other surface irrigation methods, especially rainwater harvesting. We need a complex combination of groundwater regulation, rain water harvesting and micro-irrigation. Rainwater catchments provide both surface irrigation and recharge groundwater. India has an ancient history of rainwater harvesting via tanks and stepwells. Some of these are now being revived. But new systems are also being created in some regions. If expanded across the country, 43 Sustainable Agriculture these can greatly increase agricultural output. For example, between 1999- 2009 Gujarat’s agriculture grew at almost 9.6 per cent, attributed to rainwater harvesting (linked micro-structures) and BT cotton. In addition, for surface irrigation, we need cooperation among farmers to ensure equity in water sharing between upstream and downstream, as well as big and small farmers. Alongside, to use water efficiently, several measures can help ranging from drip irrigation to growing less water guzzling crops. Today only 6-7 per cent of India’s crop area is under micro-irrigation. MGNREGA can be used to build check dams and tanks, designed using hydrological expertise. Another necessary technological shift would be to move away from cereal monocultures to crop diversity and agro- ecological farming. Broadly this means cultivating to revive the local ecology, involving diverse natural practices and mixed cropping. This would have both ecological and economic benefits. It would revive soils, save costs, employ more labour and increase net profits. Ensuring a diversity of produce including, poultry, fruits and vegetables will also be in line with India’s changing dietary patterns. Furthermore, we need research into heat resistant crops to deal with climate change. Here there is enormous scope for regional cooperation in Asia. A related need is efficient extension services. There is great potential in using cell phones to transfer information about new farming techniques, the adoption of which is found to improve significantly as a result. Institutional transformation The most difficult problem to tackle is small farm size. This requires institutional change. Our farms are too small for using machines efficiently or tapping scale economies or providing farmers enough bargaining power in diverse markets. A key way of increasing farm size is by encouraging smallholders to cooperate in production. Cooperation in farming can have many levels. It can range from single purpose to multipurpose to fully integrated. Globally, single purpose marketing cooperatives are most common, especially in the dairy industry.