 yy Treat seeds with Imidacloprid @5g or Thiomethoxam @5g/kg Soybean yy Sow varieties ASB-22 (Basara), JS-335, LSB-18, JS-93-05 during 15th June 15th July using seed drill / gorru / desi plough / by tractor drawn seed cum fertilizer drill / broad bed furrow planter. yy Treat the seeds with Carbendazim @ 1 g or Thiram or Captan @ 3 g/ kg followed by Rhizobium culture @ 200 g 10 kg/seeds Castor yy Intercrop with redgram in 1:1 or greengram in 1:3 ratio, open furrows between rows to conserve moisture in light soils. 198 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Turmeric yy Plant up to May end for short duration varieties Suguna, Sudarshana, Rajendra Sonia, Rajendra sonali; up to first fortnight of June for medium duration varieties Prathiba, CLI-317 and up to second fortnight of June for long duration varieties like KTS-8, Duggirala, Mydukuru, Tekurpeta and Armoor in raised bed at 30× 12.5 to 15 cm yy Treat the seed material with metalaxyl or mancozeb @ 3g per liter water and malathion 3-4 ml or 2 ml Monocrotophos, dry in shade yy Apply ZnSO4 @ 20 kg/acre as basal or spray 5g ZnSO4 + 0.5 ml soap water twice at 15 days interval to manage Zn deficiency yy Apply neem cake @ 100 kg/acre or carbofuran 3G granules @ 10 kg/ acre to manage rhizome fly General Guidelines for Animal Husbandry, dairy & fisheries yy Restrict the movement of visitors to the livestock farms and practice biosecurity measures. Keep sufficient feed, fodder and medicine in hand. yy Vaccinate animals against Foot and Mouth Disease and Hemorrhagic septicemia (Cows and buffaloes), PPR (goats). yy Except pregnant animals, deworm all animals for external and internal parasites. yy Monitor water intake by animals to protect from heat stress yy Supplement herbal immune boosting products in ration to boost immunity yy Observe and detect oestrus and inseminate on time yy Splash/bath buffaloes especially pregnant animals to prevent adverse effect of summer on oestrus and conception and prevent early embryonic mortality/ abortion due to heat waves. yy Offer ample milk or electrolyte water to new born calves to prevent dehydration, heat stroke and death of neonatal stocks. yy Restrict transportation of animals to costumer’s door for milking 199 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Dairy yy Deworm all adult stock with broad spectrum antihelmintic, Albendazole (Dose: 10 mg/ kg body weight) during last week of May. yy Vaccinate animals with Haemorrhagic septicaemia (HS) and black quarter in June. yy Segregate animals in milk production, dry, pregnant, non- pregnant and heifers. yy Follow body weight-based feeding regimen yy Provide 1 kg concentrate for every 2.