 Establishment of centre of excellence for production of quality planting material of elite varieties, breeding for development of trait specific varieties, import of new germplasm lines, crop improvement and molecular characterization of horticultural crops etc x. Pollination management in horticultural crops for different densities xi. Hort-Net facilities and state coordination cell for development of efficient coordination between universities and various line departments for uniformity in data collection, human resource development etc. xii. Protected and Precision farming: Promotion of polyhouse technology; use of technology to manage the inputs at the micro level – hydroponic, aeroponics, minimum tillage, micro- irrigation & fertigation etc State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 215 xiii. Management of soil health in low or valley areas: Organic cultivation of local grain, millets etc in different blocks; Promotion of soil amendments in reclamation of problematic and degraded soil in some regions of the valley. Attention should be given to balanced use of nutrients. Areas have been identified for growing fruits plants in different areas of Jammu Division as: i. Jammu with potential area of 17000 ha having sub-tropical climate we can grow mango, citrus, guava, ber, loquat, aonla and cash crops like grapes and strawberry ii. Samba is having 8000 ha potential area having sub-tropical climate crops like mango, citrus, guava, ber, loquat, aonla and cas crops like grapes and strawberry can be grown iii. Kathua with 17000 ha, Udhampur with 15000 ha, Reasi with 17000 ha, Rajouri with 15000 ha of potential area having sub-tropical to intermediate/temperate zone crops like apple, pear, walnut, pecan nut, stone fruits in intermediate/temperate climate and mango, citrus, guava, ber, loquat, aonla and cas crops like grapes and strawberry in sub-tropical region are recommended. iv. Kishtawar, Doda, Ramban and Poonch having 12000, 20000, 7000 and 22000 potential area for fruit crops with temperate climate and thus crops like apple, pear, walnut, pecan nut, stone fruits are recommended. Animal husbandry and poultry i. Promotion of good quality breeds. ii. Selection of high milk breeds in cattle and buffalo. iii. Establishment of Fodder Bank in Rajouri, Poonch, Doda etc to meet fodder requirement of area. iv. Establishment of milk chilling plant at Jammu, Udhampur, Reasi and Rajouri districts. v. Establishment of elite mutton type stud rams mother farms. The superior rams produced in these farms can be distributed in niche belts suited for mutton production vi. Devising pilot projects in a phased manner for introduction of AI in sheep and goat. vii. Popularization of welfare schemes for the benefit of farmers like Dairy viii. Entrepreneurship Development Scheme, Poultry Venture Capital Fund ix. Scheme, Rural Backyard Poultry Development Scheme, Private Paravet x. Scheme, Livestock Insurance Scheme etc. xi.