 The G20 countries will continue to have important implications for the development of a global action with representation of about 60% of all agricultural land and 80% of the global trade in food and agricultural products. Hon’ble Prime Minister Sh. Narendra Modi had rightly said that, in India, the G20 in 2023 will provide us with the opportunity to showcase our developmental strides, aimed at global goods, particularly in the agricultural sector towards ensuring food and nutritional security for all. Agriculture Deputies of the G20 agreed on a broad four-point agenda as they identified the global challenges in the agriculture sector that need immediate attention. The four point common agenda focuses on issues of food security and nutrition, sustainable agriculture and climate change’s impact, inclusive agricultural value chain and digitalization for agricultural transformation. Agriculture Working Group (AWG) was established in the year 2011 during the sixth meeting of G20 in Cannes Summit, France. The agriculture sector is a top priority on the G20 agenda that will look at sustainable food system and work on building consensus towards designing resilient food systems, for and by the people. The number of people affected by hunger is projected to exceed 840 million by 2030. It is witnessed how climate crisis and conflicts are threatening food security around the world. Instead of being bogged down by the crisis, India has come up with solutions for its own people and countries in the developing and underdeveloped world. Amid the global food crisis, India is leveraging its Presidency of G20 to further promote global food security, nutrition and food systems. The meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists of G20 States (MACS-G20) is being organized annually since 2012. This time Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) is the host to conduct this meeting from 17–19th April 2023 at Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh) with the objective to address central questions in the field of agriculture and nutrition which are too great to be resolved with only national efforts, to better co-ordinate agricultural research systems and to seek and apply common solutions strategies. The decisions taken at G20 will act as a catalyst by creating synergies among its members. G20 nations are likely to collaborate on developing a framework on global food security and nutrition to ensure a multi-pronged approach in tackling food crisis. E DITORIAL MACS-G20 to co-ordinate agricultural research systems (Dr S.K. Malhotra) Indian Farming 3 March 2023 Halophytic fodder for an extreme saline-sodic ecosystem of arid and semi-arid regions Devi Dayal, Anand Kumar Naorem*, Sachin Patel, Suresh kumar, M Sitaram Jat and Traloki Singh ICAR-Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur, Rajasthan 342 003 Saline and sodic ecosystem represents one of the major ecosystems of land having an excess amount of salts in arable land.