 Value addition and marketing of agricultural products. xi. Dissemination of technical knowledge of agricultural extension through trainings, workshops and meetings. xii. Water management: Ladakh region is considered as cold arid region and therefore water management plays important role in enhancing the productivity of crops. Water harvesting (rainfall, runoff, roof top water etc.), rejuvenation of traditional water bodies, augmentation of water storage structures, micro-irrigation, fertigation etc to enhance water use efficiency; Creation of additional water storage low hills for lean season; Promotion of water conservation techniques like mulch, sprinkler and drip in juvenile plants in low or valley areas is required. xiii. Mechanization for increasing farm efficiency - by providing prototypes, subsidizing and developing custom hiring centres; State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 227 xiv. Promotion of Integrated Farming System (IFS); viz Protected cultivation + Composting + livestock/backyard poultry or Fodder production + Mini dairy + Composting + Protected cultivation etc xv. Crop diversification with high value crops, niche specific cropping, floriculture, medicinal & aromatic plants. ICAR-CITH, Srinagar, SKUAST-Kashmir, SKUAST-Jammu and other Institutes/departments in the valley have identified the high value crops like kiwi fruit, olive, hazelnut, pecan nut, pistachio nut, Cape goose berry etc which can be fitted under crop diversification for maximizing the economic returns of the farmers. xvi. Intensive cultivation: High density plantation (HDP) in high chill apple, apricot etc. xvii. Protected and Precision farming: Promotion of polyhouse technology; use of technology to manage the inputs at the micro level– hydroponic, minimum tillage, micro-irrigation & fertigation etc. DIHAR, a laboratory of premier Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) based in Leh has been researching on techniques of growing fruits and vegetables in the cold desert of Ladakh, and is helping hundreds of farmers here to earn better living and higher production. While greenhouses for maintaining temperature are expensive and not affordable for all farmers, the Leh-based laboratory has developed simple techniques like trench farming and use of polythene sheets that help farmers grow a variety of vegetables like cabbages, onions, spinach, gourd and even watermelons in a highland which did not know any of these vegetables a decade back. xviii. Management of soil health: Organic cultivation of local grain and millets in different blocks; Promotion of soil amendments in reclamation of problematic and degraded soil in Leh and Kargil Animal husbandry and poultry i. Up gradation of cattle with exotic breeds like jersey breed through Artificial Insemination with frozen semen technology as well as with natural service. ii. Selection of high milk breeds in yak and cattle. iii.