 A total of 53 proposals comprising cereals and pesudocereals (23), millets (4), grain legumes (2), fibre and forages (4), vegetables (10), oilseeds (4), commercial crops (2), medicinal and aromatic plants and spices (2) and agro-forestry species (2) were approved for germplasm registration. In mango, fifteen “farmers’ varieties” were identified and collected from Malihabad, Uttar Pradesh. More than 176 accessions of vegetables, wild relatives of crop plants and land races belonging to 40 taxa and some unique collections like, Abelmoschus tetraphyllus var. Pungens and Momordica subangulata subsp. Subangulata were collected from Nagaland. New accessions of spices and medicinal and aromatic plant genetic resources comprising galoe, Aloe barbadensis (34); kalmegh, Andrographis paniculata (66); safed musli, Chlorophytum borivilianum (4); lemon grass, Cymbopogon flexuosus (33) and ashwagandha, Withania somnifera (122), Piper (193) and nutmeg (18) accessions, were collected. The Geographical Information System (GIS) on Animal Genetic Resources (AnGR) of India was developed as a stand alone package by which the users can extract and highlight habitats of selected breeds on the map. Nine new breeds of livestock and poultry were registered taking the total number of registered breeds to 160. Phenotypic characterization of Kaunayen chickens of Manipur and donkeys in Andhra Pradesh OVERVIEW DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 3 was completed. Genetic characterization of Kajali sheep, Sikkim goat, Kaunayen chicken and Ladakhi cattle was carried out. Out of 20 male fertility related miRNAs in other species, a few miRNAs were found differentially expressed in yak sperms, this information may help in further investigation of fertility in yak bulls. The yak found in Arunachal Pradesh are the unique in the world, but also one of the critical and endangered mountain species, which calls for an urgent attention for in situ and ex situ conservation as well as breed characterization. A new fish species of Indian chub mackerel (Scomber indicus) was discovered from Gujarat coast. Likewise Barilius torsie (Cyprinidae: Rasborinae) was recorded from river Torsa of Brahmaputra drainage system, and Rita bakalu (Siluriformes: Bagridae) from the Godavari river basin. Crop improvement: A total of 310 varieties of different crops were released comprising 155 high yielding varieties/hybrids of cereals, 68 of rice, 18 of wheat, 27 of maize, 17 of pearl millet, 10 of sorghum, 4 each of fingermillet and little millet, 3 of barley, 2 each of oat and kodo millet for cultivation in different agro- ecologies of the country during 2016. The first zinc- rich variety IET 23832 (polished rice has 22 ppm Zn), was released, notified, and recommended for Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka.