 The support also helped improve amenities in the hostels and other services in the campus, including facilities for disabled. Placement cells helped students obtain placement or advice on career. Support from the Council was also provided to AUs to take necessary initiatives so as to encourage holistic development of students through sports, self-defence, yoga, personality development talks by eminent people, through workshops, coaching and counselling for clearing competitive exams on all India basis, etc. Support under Scheduled Tribe Component The support under STC was provided to 29 Agricultural Universities during 2020–21 for agricultural and allied activities in the tribal areas. The major agricultural and allied activities conducted were, Library strengthening The library strengthening grants have an impact upon the quality of education imparted in the agricultural universities as evident by the number of students qualifying for various national and international examinations. Latest books, e- journals, etc. helped students to improve research, formulate projects, and led to improvement in publication quality and helped them compete at national and regional level competitions. The strengthening of library also helped improve quality of research by PG students, and around 1863 Ph.D. thesis were submitted as per data received from 54 AUs. This has resulted in total of 5,303 publications out of PG research, of which 2,500 are in NAAS rating 5.0–7.5 and 486 in NAAS rating of above 7.5. This year, under this component, funds were mainly provided under E-granth project. Krishikosh is a digital repository (https://krishikosh.egranth.ac.in/) which captures, preserves, archives and provides policy based access to the intellectual output of Indian National Agricultural Research and Education System (NARES). Presently, the digital repository has 40 million digitized pages in two lakh ten thousand digital items (volumes) like old books, old Journals, reports, proceedings, reprint, research highlights, training manuals, historical records, which includes more than one lakh fifty thousand theses digitized from various NARES Institutes/ SAUs. Through E-granth, the Krishikosh platform can be accessed on 24×7 basis and provide semantic search and retrieval facilities to share library resources.Till date 167,972 theses have been uploaded in the Krishikosh repository. Library strengthening Status of theses uploaded on Krishikosh ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 118 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT viz. 69 training/ skill development/ capacity building programmes, 2976 demonstrations (FLDs/ OFTs), 42 Awareness camp/ Exhibitions/ Exposure visits and distribution of inputs (Quality maize seeds, piglets, goats, seedlings for various fruits, vegetable seeds, poultry birds for backyard poultry, egg incubators) to approximately, 16,665 tribal beneficiaries to improve their livelihood.