 Prelude 64 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK The KVKs have played a crucial role in empowering the farmers since 1974 when the first KVK was established and proved their worth in addressing the needs of the stakeholders in the following way: ●Showcasing the frontier technologies ●Capacity development of stakeholders ●Front runner in technology application ●Making available technological information and inputs ●Practicing participatory approaches in planning, implementing, executing and evaluation ●Pursuing assessment and refinement of technologies to suit different agro-climatic conditions However, for meeting new challenges, it is important to focus on conservation of natural resources, achieving higher productivity sustainability in agriculture, enhancing farmers income through bringing in farming to market value chain efficiency. KVK as an institution having played role in transforming agriculture, will have to play defining role in economic empowerment and accelerating agricultural growth in the years to come. In order to make KVKs more efficient and vibrant, the High Power Committee (HPC) has prepared the KVK Management Guidelines. This will help in strengthening the KVK system leading to address the specific problems and priorities in national and global perspective. The Education Commission (1964-66) recommended that a vigorous effort be made to establish specialized institutions to provide vocational education in agriculture and allied fields at the pre and post-matriculate levels to cater the training needs of a large number of boys and girls of rural areas. The Commission, further, suggested that such institutions be named as Agricultural Polytechnics. The recommendation of the Commission was thoroughly discussed during 1966-72 by the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Agriculture, Planning Commission, ICAR and other allied institutions. Finally, the ICAR mooted the idea of establishing KVKs as innovative institutions for imparting vocational training to the practicing farmers, school dropouts and field level extension functionaries. ICAR Standing Committee on Agricultural Education, in its meeting held in August, 1973, observed that since the establishment of KVKs was of national importance which would help in accelerating the agricultural production and also in improving the socio-economic conditions of the farming community, the assistance of all related institutions should be taken in implementing this scheme. The ICAR, therefore, constituted a committee in 1973 headed by Dr. Mohan Singh Mehta of Seva Mandir, Udaipur (Rajasthan), for working out a detailed plan for implementing this scheme. The Committee submitted its report in 1974. The first KVK, on a pilot basis, was established in 1974 at Puducherry (Pondicherry) under the administrative control of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU), Coimbatore.