 Various methods for determining the dates of irrigation for sugarcane crop have been deployed and the one based on the ratio between irrigation water (IW) depth and cumulative pan evaporation (CPE) has been found to be the best, both for saving of water and raising the water and crop productivity. Since the CPE data is not available with the sugarcane growers, the mobile app, Ikshu Kedar was developed that integrates the long term rainfall and pan evaporation in the sub- tropics with the optimum IW:CPE ratio developed for different growth stages of the crop. It is very easy to handle, as the app needs only the dates of sugarcane planting and the last irrigation date as input from the grower to work out the next date of irrigation. Based on the long-term rainfall and cumulative pan evaporation, the date of next irrigation provided by the app suits the crop needs and also effectively reduces the frequency of irrigation. This app is available on google play store for download and installation in android mobile phones. Many mobile apps have been developed for the various agricultural crops however; the mobile apps for sugarcane are limited and restricted to provide the basic information of the cultivation methods for the crop. Further, interactive mobile app related to irrigation scheduling in sugarcane was lacking. The Ikshu Kedar mobile app has been developed to fulfil this gap. Sugarcane farmers have limited ways to reduce the cost of sugarcane cultivation as reducing the input leads to reduction in sugarcane Indian Farming 29 March 2023 yield. This app takes care of water management even at the sugarcane maturity stage which helps in maintaining sucrose per cent in cane stalks to get good sugar recovery in sugar mills after crushing. Ikshu Kedar Sugarcane cultivation provides base to our rural economy. Adequate and timely irrigation in sugarcane fields is necessary along with other measures for higher sugarcane productivity. In order to get the beneficial response of irrigation on sugarcane yield, farmers keep applying irrigation water frequently and in excessive quantity. This practice leads to wastage of precious water and increases the expenditure on crop irrigation. Irrigation water saving in sugarcane has double benefits as on one side environment can be protected and irrigation expenditure can be reduced, and on the other side saved water can be utilized to promote other economic activities. Keeping all these in view, an Ikshu Kedar mobile app has been developed for irrigation scheduling in sugarcane under north Indian climatic conditions. The app is based on the scientific calculations. This app is useful for increasing irrigation water efficiency and water productivity in sugarcane crop. It determines the next coming date of irrigation in sugarcane field, and also confirms whether irrigation is due on a given date or not.