 IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF HORTICULTURAL CROPS 63 SUCCESS STORY MEDICINAL MUSHROOM PRODUCTION The NRC for Mushroom, Solan, has made a breakthrough by successfully growing the medicinal mushroom called Reishi or Ling Zhi (Ganoderma lucidum). Most-prized Red Reishi was produced organically to the desired maturity level and yield obtained was equal to the international standards. The Reishi mushroom costs about 1 billion dollar international and Rs 100 crores current domestic market. The technology is being scaled up at pilot plant level and concurrently various exotic as well as local collections of mushrooms are being evaluated for yield and pharmacological properties. Only a few countries have the technology of Reishi production. China controls 60% of the world trade of 5,000 tonnes/annum. Medicinal products of Ganoderma lucidum are very popular in the American and European countries and foreign companies have started trading the products in Indian market also.With an eye on the export market as well as import substitution, the NRC for Mushroom, Solan, has come out with a totally indigenous technology to produce Red Reishi completely organically as demanded by the pharma industry. activity was quite significant in these two strains followed by OE 55 (V.diplasia) on paddy straw substrate. Paddy straw mushroom could be stored under ambient condition (22–28°C) for 3–4 months and up to 6 months under lower temperature conditions (15–20°C). Similarly, mushroom spawn can also be stored for about 45 days under ambient temperature conditions. Most important medicinal mushroom, Reishi or Ling Zhi (Ganoderma lucidum), was successfully grown for the first time in the country. The Red Reishi, a Korean strain, was cultivated on wheat bran supplemented sawdust (organically) and 20% biological efficiency obtained which is equal to the international level of yield obtained. Survey of different mushroom farms revealed widespread incidence of wet bubble in Dharmpur and adjoining areas of Solan District. However, in Chambaghat area, severe incidence of sciarid flies was observed in 2 farms. Germination studies revealed that only 3 months old chlamydospores of Mycogones perniciosa germinated in glucose and sucrose solutions. In sucrose solution germination began 24 and 96 hr after incubation at 25°C, and 15 and 12% germination was recorded at pH 6.0 and 7.0 respectively. Germination of conidia occurred in all the media and at both the temperatures and pH levels. Maximum (96%) germination occurred in young mushroom extract. Conidial germination of Cladobotryum dendroides in different media showed 100% germination in mushroom extract followed by compost extract after 8 hr. In-vitro studies on diflubenzuron against A. bisporus and mushrooms sciarid showed that 0.3% diflubenzuron caused 11.11% inhibition of A. bisporus. However, in all the treatments larvae failed to moult. Different concentrations of Neemjeevan were tested against sciarid larvae by dipping method.