 Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS) virus in pigs: The nucleocapsid protein (N) of PRRSV genotype 2 Indian isolate (PRRS/MZ/IND/109A/ 18, Genbank#MK315210.1) was successfully cloned into pET vector. The codon optimized PRRSV N gene was expressed successfully in pET30a vector. The recombinant N protein was purified using the Ni-NTA purification system and optimized through indirect ELISA for detection of antibody against PRRSV in field porcine sera samples. The protocol used more field sera samples collected from field outbreaks of PRRS in Mizoram and comparison of the results with the commercial kit (PrioCHECK PRRSV ab porcine kit from Prionics) is under validation. Dietary trace minerals in animals under stress conditions: The effect of dietary selenium levels on trace mineral metabolism, antioxidant response and mRNA expression of heat shock protein under heat stress condition in goats was assessed. Higher dietary selenium Captive breeding of hilsa SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 169 CRISPR/CAS9 guided functional analysis of genes regulating early embryonic survival in buffalo For targeted editing of COX-2, PTGES and PTGFS genes confluent buffalo endometrial epithelial cells (70–80% confluency) were transfected with COX-2, PTGES and PTGFS CRISPR/Cas9 constructs. After 48 hr, culture was kept for puromycin selection for 12 days. A significant decrease in PGF2α and PGE2 concentrations following CRISPR/Cas9 based editing of COX-2, PTGES and PTGFS genes was observed. Significant decrease was observed in COX-2, PTGES and PTGFS mRNA expression following editing of COX-2, PTGES and PTGFS genes. A method for pure culture of epithelial cells was developed by differential attachment method. CRISPR-CAS9 vectors were constructed, which contain sequences for target sgRNA and Cas9 for efficient knockdown in host cells. Successful transfection of the constructed CRISPR/Cas9 vectors using lipofectamine was achieved in mouse endometrial epithelial cells at 40% transfection efficiency. of Se in conferring better adaptation of animals to higher environmental temperatures. Heat stress (HS) increased urinary excretion of trace minerals namely, Cu, Zn, and Mn; however, higher dietary Se reduced heat-stress- induced trace minerals excretion from the body. The serum concentration of Se, Zn, and Cu and the activity of GPx, SOD, catalase antioxidant enzymes reduced and GSH improved in 1,154 and 2,018 ppb Se fed goats under HS condition. Exposure to heat stress for a prolonged period of 21 days down-regulated mRNA expression of Hsp70 in goats, which might be indicative of de- compensatory phenomenon. However, feeding higher Se under HS conditions could maintain the mRNA expression of Hsp70 equal to TN conditions.