 Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi expressed gratitude (through twitter message) to all the nations who initiated and co-sponsored the resolution on International Year of Millets at the United Nations through a message. In his remarks he said, India is honoured to be at the forefront of popularizing Millets, whose consumption furthers nutrition, food security and welfare of farmers. He said, it also offers research and innovation opportunities for agriculture scientists and start-up communities. Major observations given by different countries in FAO council meeting on 4th December, 2018 Mr Mohammad Hossein Emadi (Chairperson, Committee on Agriculture) There are a wide range of millets and the important role of the millet in most of the Asian and African countries and the importance, and the diversity, of the sort of millet is known by Member Countries. In terms of reasoning for an International Year of Millets, first of all, millet is highly nutritious, climate resilient in terms of resilience to temperature, resilience to water scarcity and of course salinity and that is one of the major points that was considered by the COAG. The Council is invited to consider the proposal and recommendation of COAG and to submit the proposal for consideration to the 41st session of the FAO Conference on 22–29 June 2019. He introduced the proposal from Indian delegation on the International Year of Millets and opened the floor for comments. Mr Yubo Xu (China) China has the honour to deliver this joint statement on behalf of the Asia group on the International Year of Millets. More than 45 million people in Asia depend on millets. We are confident that the celebration of International Year of Millets will elevate awareness about climate resilience and nutritional benefits of millets and will promote for healthy diets through increased sustainable production and consumption of millets. Asia group takes this opportunity to strongly support and advocate the proposal of India for an International Year of Millets in 2023. I would also like to make a statement on behalf of China. We would like to support the proposal from India for International Year of Millets in 2023. Ms Elsa Simoes (Cabo Verde) Cabo Verde is making this statement on behalf of the African Regional Group. We welcome the proposal from the Government of India to promote the year 2023 as the International Year of Millets. As we all know the challenges of climate change, the increase in both under and malnourishment and the growing demography imposes an urgent need to several of our countries in Africa, especially in the Sahelian region, to overcome the pressing lack of water, thus the promotion of production and consumption of millets could be one of the solutions. Therefore, an International Year of Millets, in 2023, on an exceptional basis, could well be the opening door to promote much Reply to IYOM queries in side meetings at FAO Rome Indian delegation with Ambassador Ms.