 Milk Profiling of Indigenous Cattle Studies conducted on the evaluation of various physico-chemical attributes (α-casein, β-casein, κ-casein, whey-protein fractions-α-lactalbumin, β-lactoglobulin, fat, SNF, protein,) and mineral content in Sahiwal, Tharparkar and Gir breeds and crossbred Karan Fries (KF) at ICAR-NDRI indicated marginally higher contents in indigenous breeds except for the mineral content which was comparable to the values reported for crossbred cattle. Whereas there were no significant differences in various compositional parameters such as fat, SNF, protein, lactose, ash, fat globule size, viscosity, specific Gravity, phospholipids, cholesterol, beta-carotene, conjugated linoleic acids and fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E), etc. between indigenous breeds (Deoni and Malnad) and the HF crossbreed. Even the ghee prepared showed no apparent difference in physicochemical parameters. The study on profiling on milk proteome in indigenous Sahiwal cattle resulted in identification of more than 6800 proteins which were found to be related to the host defence systems - immune regulation and host defense (antimicrobial activity, cytokines, chemokines, lactoferrin, complement C3, lactoperxidase, xanthine oxidase, alpha lactalbumin, alpha2macroglobulin, lactadherin, etc.). However, research is continuing for comparative assessment of different indigenous cattle for various bioactive components to assess their potential role in human health. 4.3. Assisted Reproductive Techniques (ARTs) for Faster Genetic Improvement The ARTs include several advance reproductive technologies such as artificial insemination (AI), multiple ovulation and embryo transfer (ET), in vitro production (IVF) of embryos, sperm sexing and intracytoplasmic sperm injection. Using these technologies, in recent past there have been immense improvements in the genetics and productivity of the animals. However, the application of these technologies in indigenous dairy cows had been slow. In this respect, NDDB established Embryo Transfer (ET) facility at Sabarmati Ashram Gaushala (SAG) at Bidaj in 1987 and started super-ovulation of elite cattle and buffaloes for production of embryos. Since beginning, ET has been extensively used for bull production programmes. Since the inception of the project in 1987, 11584 viable embryos have been produced and 774 male calves were born. Further, to boost the application of ARTs, Government of India has launched a new initiative Rashtriya Gokul Mission, with an aim to conserve and improve indigenous cattle breeds in a focused and scientific manner since India is blessed with a huge biodiversity. Under this program ETT/IVF labs are being established. Improvement of Indigenous Cattle: Gandhian Perspectives 32 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 4.4. Artificial Insemination (AI) The artificial insemination has made tremendous impact on the dairy industry.