 ● Cassava hybrids Sree Rekha and Sree Prabha were released ● The technology for bioconveision of cassava starch factory residues for maltose was standardized using crushed rice seedlings as amylase ● The low-cost effluent technology of detoxification of starch and sago factory effluents was successfully transferred for commercialization IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF HORTICULTURAL CROPS 59 viz. Serangium parcesetosum, an unidentified Coccinellid and a Phytoseiid mite. Host transfer and ovipositional studies on white fly proved the existence of two strains of the insect, viz. cassava strain and sweet potato strain. Maximum nymphal and pupal population of white fly was found on the middle leaves of cassava, whereas adult population was maximum in the lower leaves. Major predators of spiral whitefly were identified as Axinocymnus sp., Scymnus sp. and Cybocephalus sp. and parasitoid was Encarsia sp. Petroleum ether extracts of cassava tuber rind and seeds and ethyl acetate extract of cassava leaves were effective in causing very high mortality (77-100%) of the rice weevil (Sitophilus oryzae). Active charcoal was found to be an effective medium for mass trapping of rice weevil, a major pest of stored cassava chips. The entomopathogenic fungi, Beauveria bassiana and Metarrhizium anisopliae, and nematode, Steinernema glaseri, were field tested for their efficacy against sweet potato weevil. Araecerus fasciculatus is a major storage pest of yams and aroids and its multiplication is fast at 70-80% RH and ambient temperature (27-30°C). Thaneroclerus buquiti is found as an effective predator of this pest. New nematodes were reported in Xanthosoma (Meloidogyne javanica) and elephant-foot yam (Radopholoides sp.). Survey conducted on tuber rot of cassava in Thammampatty and adjoining areas of Tamil Nadu revealed constant association of Phytophthora palmivora with the disease. Regulating irrigation, improving drainage and strict adherence to sanitation were found to help in containing the disease. A leaf blight resistant taro cultivar ‘Muktakeshi’ was identified. The Integrated Disease Management (IDM) package comprising use of resistant variety, tuber treatment with Trichoderma viride and one preventive spray with Mancozeb (0.2%) was developed for the management of taro leaf blight. The technology for the bioconversion of cassava starch factory residues to maltose was standardized using crushed rice seedlings as the source of amylase. Approximately 2.5 kg residues gave 1.5 kg of maltose syrup containing 13% maltose. Technology for the production of cold water-soluble starch was modified to reduce the requirement of alcohol. Carboxymethyl starch with desirable solubility and viscosity was prepared from cassava starch. Studies on the swelling volume, clarity and pasting properties of cassava starch showed that acids/alum produced detrimental effect by reducing the viscosity, whereas oxidising agents had only marginal effect on these properties.