 Further, by controlling water temperature in RAS, it is possible to reduce crop duration to 5- 6 months (as compared to the 12-14 months cycle in FTS) and augment production per unit time. In this regard, ICAR-Directorate of Coldwater Fisheries Research, Bhimtal has initiated a study for the feasibility of RAS for rainbow trout in the Indian context. ICAR-DCFR designed and installed a RAS, consisting of four 7 m3 large culture tanks for grow-out production and 18 (0.5 m3 each) juvenile rearing and experimental tanks with available rearing volume of 33 m3 (Fig. 3). The system consists of radial flow separators and mesh screen drum filter to remove settable and suspended solids and two moving- bed biological filter to remove ammonia and nitrite, and a UV filter for disinfection. The water is re- circulated with the help of water pumps continuously. With the current pilot-scale RAS set up, it is possible to produce 1.2 MT of trout per crop cycle (2.4 MT per year, at the stocking density 40 kg per m3). The production can be increased to ~5.0 MT per year with the help of pure oxygen for oxygenation and Fig. 2. Trout raceways Indian Farming November 2020 51 addition of CO2 stripper and protein skimmer to system. In the trial, ~ 250kg of rainbow trout are harvested and sold from two of the grow-out tanks, and observation indicates that growth rates are much faster in RAS compared to FTRS (100 g to 800 g in four months) due to controlled water parameters. Currently, we are testing the system for complete production cycles and economic feasibility of the RAS system for rainbow trout farming in the Indian scenario. RAS system can significantly contribute to increase in trout production due to the fact that the RAS farming practices can be done from nearly anywhere in the Indian upland region with limited water availability and lower land footprints which otherwise impossible with current farming practices in flow through raceways. Moreover, ICAR-DCFR is also working on development of affordable and economically viable prototypes for small scale RAS trout production systems which can be operated by small scale farmers and will be disseminating soon to the Indian hill fish farmers. Polyculture of exotic carps In the upland waters, Chinese carps are commonly cultured in the mid-Himalayan region as the candidate species for polyculture. The culture of Chinese carps were introduced in the polytanks/ irrigation tanks in the mid altitude regions. The technology provided opportunities for conservation of water for irrigation and fish culture. The use of polytanks has shown enhanced growth of fish. Around 76 farmers in the Champawat and Almora districts of Uttarakhand have already adopted the technology.