 The remaining 30-40% increase in income must be realized through institutional innovations such as reforms in pricing, aggregation of producers into companies to have a collective bargaining power in terms of buying inputs and selling output and a robust agricultural insurance product covering all gamut of farming including crop, livestock, fishery, horticulture, sericulture etc. The noble goal of Doubling Framers Income will only be realized if there is a concerted effort in all sectors and by implementing an action plan at the ground level involving all the stakeholders. 13.2 The strategies for Doubling Farmer’s Income in different zones Karnataka has enormous potential for development of horticulture, livestock, fisheries and agro- forestry sectors due to its varied Agro Climatic Zones. The strategies for Doubling Farmer’s Income based on potentials to develop different sectors in different zones have been given below: A. North Eastern Transition Zone i. Protective irrigation for pulse production. ii. Facilitating minimal processing of Dal. iii. Integration of small ruminants in agriculture. iv. Bio-ethanol production from sugarcane cultivation. v. Dryland horticulture coupled with post harvest processing and cold storage facilities. vi. Intercropping in sugarcane with vegetables and pulses. vii. Crop cultivation with cash crops like ginger, turmeric and flowers. viii. Promotion of mango cultivation. B. North Eastern Dry Zone i. Integrated crop management in Red gram and Bengal gram. ii. Establishment of mini Dal mills at Panchayat level for primary value addition. iii. Establishing of processing and packing industry at district level. iv. Rainwater harvesting through watershed development approach. v. Hi-tech horticulture/protected cultivation with recharged groundwater. vi. Integrated crop management in cotton and floriculture, groundnut and sunflower cultivation. vii. Reclamation of problematic soils. 252 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 viii. Replacing rice under bore well irrigation with floriculture, and olericutlure. ix. Facilitating processing of papaya, pomegranate and fig. x. Expanding irrigation facility by completing lift and tank irrigation projects. xi. Promoting FPO of oilseed growers with complete value chain (Eg Erode of TN). xii. Integration of small ruminants with rainfed farming in areas with high rainfall variability. xiii. Horticulture based IFS. C. Northern Dry Zone i. Groundwater augmentation through watershed development. ii. Integration of dry land horticulture and small ruminants and buffalo calf rearing with agriculture. iii. Bio-remedying of excavated soils in mining areas. iv. Building farmers’ capacity for seed production of oilseeds. v. Intercropping in orchards with Greengram, Cowpea, Horse gram, sunflower and millets in dry conditions. vi. Intercropping in orchards with vegetable crops like Beans, Chilli, Onion, Watermelon, Ridge gourd, Cucumber and Okra under limited irrigation.