 A blood donation camp was also organized in collaboration with ‘Sangam Blood Centre’, LB Nagar, Hyderabad. From the institute, 38 members volunteered for blood donation. Section of Design and Analysis ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Santoshnagar, Hyderabad 500 059 Telangana 8 ICAR REPORTER April - June 2023 The participants in their feedback informed that they obtained practical knowledge and skill in the production of bioagents for FAW management. This would enable them to set up production units or fine-tune the methodologies adopted at existing units in their respective countries. The training programme was coordinated by Dr R Muniappan, Principal Investigator, FTFNIPM and IPMA, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, USA and ICAR-NBAIR scientists Dr Subaharan, Dr M Sampat Kumar, U Amala and Dr Richa Varshney. In-charge, PME Cell ICAR-National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources Bellary Road, Bengaluru 560 024, Karnataka Website: www. nbair.res.in E-mail ID: pme.nbair@icar.gov.in MoU ICAR-CIBA signed MoU with Vellore Institute of Technology for CIBA-PlanktonPlus technology transfer 5 April 2023, Vellor. ICAR-CIBA signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), Vellore, Tamil Nadu on 3 April 2023, for transferring the CIBA-PlanktonPlus production technology on a non-exclusive basis. Dr Kuldeep K Lal, Director, ICAR-CIBA while signing the MoU stressed upon generating adequate data on the field performance of PlanktonPlus in agriculture and horticulture crops. He complimented the VIT for recognising the technology and coming forward to sign the MoU. A hands-on training on PlanktonPlus production technology was imparted to the students of VIT at the Fishwaste Processing Unit of ICAR-CIBA, Chennai. Dr Debasis De, Principal Scientist, ICAR-CIBA and team leader of the technology briefly explained the potential of CIBA-PlanktonPlus in enhancing aquaculture productivity. Dr Paul Man Singh, Senior Associate Professor, School of Agriculture, VIT was optimistic that they would develop entrepreneurship among the coastal farmers using this technology with the support of ICAR-CIBA. PME Cell ICAR-Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture Chennai, Tamil Nadu 600 028 ICAR-CIFRI signed License Agreement of “ICAR-CIFRI Cagegrow”, a floating feed with Glaucus Agrochem Pvt. Ltd. 27 April 2023, Barrackpore. ICAR-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute, Barrackpore, Kolkata signed a Technology License agreement of “ICAR-CIFRI Cagegrow”, a floating fish feed with the Glaucus Agrochem Pvt. Ltd. on 27 April 2023. ICAR-CIFRI grants a non-exclusive license of five years for the manufacturing and sale of ICAR-CIFRI Cagegrow floating fish feed in the territory of India. The commercialization process was completed through Agrinnovate India Ltd, the commercial arm of ICAR.