 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3006 Indigenous method of improving the productivity of banana Adi tribe of Pasighat area of district East Siang in Arunachal Pradesh have developed their own system to increase the yield of banana plant. Most of the banana varieties found are of local type whose peduncles are very large. The fingers on the tip portion of these local cultivars are very thin whereas on the other end these fingers are normally thick. Hence, to lessen the number of fingers per peduncle, these thin fingers are plucked up to one third length of the peduncle. These plucked thin fingers are used for preparing a dish. The fingers are boiled (without peeling the skin) with ginger, spring onion, garlic and local spices. The dish is ready to eat. Sometimes during certain special or festive occasions dried fish is added to this dish, and eaten. By plucking the thin fingers, the yield per plant of banana is increased, and market value of the remaining fingers is also increased due to increase in size. Keywords: banana finger, pluck, dried fish, size Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 3007 Mulching in banana 3008 Increasing growth of banana bunch To improve the soil fertility in the banana fields, a practice of mulching of crop residues is in use. Crop residues are placed between rows in the banana field, at an early stage. This residues acts as green-manure and increases soil fertility. Keywords: mulching, banana field, soil fertility About 20 ml lime juice (Citrus Union), 20 g cooking charcoal powder, 10 g urea and 20 ml cow urine are taken in a plastic cover, and tied at the tip of the banana bunch. This mixture gives colour, brightness, taste and good formation of banana fruits. If the Shri G. Saravanan, S/o Shri V. Guruchamy, Gopal patty, Vembarpatty, Natham, dist. Dindugul (Tamil Nadu) 624 308 Shri T. Sadharajan. S/o Shri Thangavel, P.O. Kothamangalam, taluk, Alangudi, dist. Pudukkottai (Tamil Nadu) 614 624 120 Content HORTICULTURAL CROPS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3009 Use of indigenous mixture for enhancing growth of banana 3010 Control of panama wilt in banana 3011 Use of indigenous paste for increasing plantain size and taste in banana 3012 Treatment of mango trees for proper flowering colour and taste are good, banana fetches good price in the market. Keywords: banana, bunch, growth A mixture is prepared by using 5 litres cow-urine, 5 litres cow-dung, 1/4 kg local brown sugar and 5 litres water. This mixture is left for 24 hr. In 1 litre mixture, 10 litres water is added and sprayed at the bottom of the tree. This mixture improves the banana-plant growth.