9 per cent of the total geographical area of India and about 9 per cent of its total population, also has the distinction of being the most densely populated state of the country. Agriculture is the mainstay of economy in Bihar and contributing nearly 24.84% to the State Gross Domestic Product (2011-12) and about 19% to State Net Domestic Product, respectively. It provides employment to 67 per cent of rural work force. Annual precipitation in the state varies between 990 and 1,200 mm, with major precipitation during the months of July to September. Bihar is the only state in the country which has to experience drought and floods simultaneously on a recurring basis. The state is divided into four agro-ecological subzones. These are: Zone I: North–West Gangatic Plains, Zone II: North Eastern Gangatic Plain, Zone IIIA and IIIB: South Bihar Plains. The topography of Bihar can be easily described as a fertile alluvial plain occupying the Gangetic Valley. Paddy, wheat, maize, lentils, chickpea, sugarcane, jute, etc. are the major field crops. The principal fruits are: mangoes, banana, guava, jack fruit and litchi. The proportion of total land put to agricultural use is high, compared to other states of India. Cropping pattern of Bihar reveals that the agricultural economy of the state is very much tilted in favour of the subsistence sector, since the acreage under food grains has been more than 92 percent in all the years. Bihar predominantly cultivates cereals. It devotes around 79 per cent of its gross cropped area for cereal production as compared to the national average of 51 per cent. 4.1 Productivity Gap and Major Constraints A. Agri-Horti Crops A. Smaller farm holdings are the greatest challenge for the development of agriculture sector in Bihar. The average size of land holding is less than 0.40 ha. More than 91 percent of all holdings fall in the category of marginal holdings with farm size less than 1 hectare. B. Large section of the population in the state has remained unskilled and poorly educated. C. Bihar is primarily an agricultural state and large landlords still control vast expanses of land. Private investment to increase agricultural productivity remain suboptimal. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 62 D. Slow adoption of modern technologies by the farmers. Dominance of cereals in cropping pattern reflects on the subsistence nature of state agriculture. Although all the 38 districts have a functional Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs), still the institutional extension system faces the challenge to take latest technologies to the farmers’ field. E. The state is flood and drought prone, nearly 41 per cent of cropped area (2.2 million ha) is flood-prone. Canal Irrigation is scanty. Irrigation is majorly (70 percent) dependent on diesel based tube wells as the share of consumption of electricity for Agricultural purpose is very low (6%). F. Seed replacement rate (SRR) is very low, especially in pulses (11-20%). G.