 The germplasm procured during the reported period is as follows: Genome sequencing of food fishes: Clarias magur commonly known as magur and Tenualosa ilisha, commonly known as hilsa are the two economically important food fishes of Indian sub-continent with promising aquaculture potential due to food preference, good nutritional profile and high market price. Whole genome sequencing of Clarias magur and Tenualosa ilisha, was carried out for generation of comprehensive genomic information of these fishes. Whole genome sequencing of Clarias magur revealed maximum contig length and N50 value of 3.9 Mb and 237 kb, respectively. Transcriptome assembly resulted in 54,061 and 109,204 transcripts with maximum transcript length of 15,442 bp and 15,456 bp in ovary and testis, respectively. The gonadal transcriptome study is an attempt to decipher the differential gonadal transcripts and miRNAs, along with miRNA-mRNA interaction in C. batrachus. It will help in determining the molecular mechanisms of sex determination and sex specific genes in C. magur. Similarly the draft assembly of T. ilisha comprised primary assembly of 2,867 contigs (763.19Mb) and alternate assembly of 3448 contigs (15.56Mb). Genome showed largest contig of 17.431 Mb and N50 2.624 Mb. The mitogenome has contig length of 16,745 bases and 13 protein coding genes, 2 ribosomal RNA, 22 tRNA’s and a D-loop region. The consolidated knowledge of sequenced genome of both the species will facilitate understanding of genetic mechanisms influencing production traits through mining of genes, which in turn can provide protocols for fast selection of economically important adaptive traits and improvement of organisms. Mitogenome sequencing in edible oyster: The edible oyster, Crossostrea madrasensis inhabits intertidal zone in estuaries, backwaters, ports and harbors and constitute an important molluscan fisheries of Indian Ocean. Oyster meat is highly esteemed seafood and aquaculture is widely practised particularly in Kerala in India. Mitochondrial genome sequencing of C. madrasensis comprises 22,410 bp in size and codes for 14 functional proteins, viz. Cox [1-3], Cob, NAD[1, 2-0,2-1,3,4,5,5-1,6,4L] and ATPase6, 27 tRNAs and 2 ribosomal RNAs. The genome also possess several unique features such as absence of ATPase 8, duplication of rRNA S, and presence of additional tRNA K and tRNA. The study will help in identification of stocks for future production programmes. Genome sequencing of Aphanomyces invadens: Infection with oomycetes fungus, Aphanomyces invadens causes large-scale mortalities of cultured and wild fish. The fish infected with A. invadens precipitated further and develop ulcers over the fish body in associations with other organism leading to death of fish. Since, this is a syndrome and causes mass-scale mortalities particularly during winters, the study on genome sequencing of A. invadens was carried out at ICAR-NBFGR, Lucknow.