 Therefore, understanding the implications of semi-arid environ­ ments is crucial for formulating effective development strategies and technologies (Morante-Carballo et al., 2022). Improving water efficiency in agriculture requires innovative, long- term resilience solutions to conserve water, mitigate water crises, and ensure sustainable resource utilization (Rahimi-Feyzabad et al., 2020; Rouzaneh et al., 2021). Water conservation is a major focus in India, with micro-irrigation (MI) emerging as a key strategy. This modern approach to watering plants involves applying small amounts of water directly to the soil surface through emitters placed along water delivery lines, optimizing water usage. The adoption of MI has increased signif­ icantly, with 10.66 million hectares of land under micro-irrigation from 2005 to 06 to 2020–21, largely due to the effective implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) scheme. Launched in 2015, PMKSY aims to enhance farm water access, improve on-farm water use efficiency, promote sustainable water conservation practices, and expand cultivable areas with assured irrigation. Its “Per Drop More Crop” initiative focuses on micro-irrigation for enhanced water use efficiency and provides financial support for various irrigation systems, including drip, micro, and sprinkler irrigation. By adopting drip and sprinkler irrigation technologies, Indian farmers can optimize water usage, reduce wastage, and enhance agricultural productivity. MI technology can boost crop productivity by 20 to 90% for various crops (INCID, 1994, 1998; Narayanamoorthy, 2009). Despite its potential, MI technology has not fully met expectations in most semi-arid states. Previous studies indicate that while the area under drip irrigation significantly increased between 1991 and 92 and 2000–01 across all semi-arid states in India, the proportion of drip-irrigated land relative to the gross irrigated area remained low at only 0.48% in 2000–01 (Nar­ ayanamoorthy, 2009; Saleth, 2009; Chand et al., 2020). Although the expansion of drip irrigation could have been faster in earlier years, substantial development has occurred since the 1990s, driven by various government initiatives, with Maharashtra leading, followed by Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu. Fig. 1 shows a significant increase in the adoption of drip and sprinkler irrigation technologies across various Indian states from 2014 to 15 to 2020–21, primarily driven by proactive government support and incentives. Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu have seen substantial progress due to targeted promo­ tion of micro-irrigation. Karnataka, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, and Gujarat have also shown notable increases, though at a slower pace. In contrast, Haryana and Punjab have witnessed slower adoption rates, with Punjab even experiencing a decline in usage.