 Notably, the cost of cultivating cereal-based systems surpasses that of September- planted arhar-based system in terms of net returns. Thus, promoting and embracing the September arhar- based production system emerges as a viable agronomic choice, offering substantial economic gains, ecological sustainability, and long- term viability. *Corresponding author email: rakeshbhu08@gmail.com Importance of Millets and Improved Technologies TECHNICAL ASPECTS Pages: v + 183; Price: ` 700.00, US$ 90.00; Postage: `50 ISBN No.: 978-81-7164-272-4 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit ICAR- Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan – I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Tel: 011-25843657; email: bmicar@icar.org.in, businessuniticar@gmail.com website: www.icar.gov.in “Importance of Millets and Improved Technologies” This book is an excellent compilation of knowledge of importance of Millets and improved production technologies which is essential to create awareness among the end users for their promotion. Millets are being utilized for various purposes such as food, feed, fodder and more recently, as bio-fuel. For this information, importance of different millet crops in our livelihood and their technological advancement has been compiled in this monogram. This will be of immense value to the researchers, academicians, end-users and policymakers alike to promote millets farming. Indian Farming 19 January 2024 Land resource inventory (LRI) based agro-technology transfer in delta and plains of West Bengal Siladitya Bandyopadhyay1*, Sah Kausar Reza1 and Asru Kumar Maitra1 1ICAR-National Bureau of Soil Survey and Land Use Planning, Regional Centre, Kolkata, West Bengal 700 091 Land resource inventory (LRI) based agro-technology transfer has been employed in lower Gangetic delta and Coastal plains of West Bengal. Acid saline soils occurred in 41.6% of the study area soils with severe salinity hazards. About 44.0% of area was best suited for crop diversification, while, 19.4% area was marked marginally suitable for majority of crops. LRI based best management practices (BMP) resulted in average annual benefit to cost ratio of 2.62 and average annual net returns from crops of `1,51,495, showing beneficial impact of 63.8 and 112%, respectively with average yield gain of crops by 42.0% over the existing or conventional management practices made by the farmers previously. Keywords: Agro-technology transfer, Benefit to cost ratio, Land resource inventory, Land use plan L AND resource inventory based agro-technology transfer involves land suitability assessment for crops and other allied enterprises through interpretative grouping of important physical and chemical parameters of soil to choose appropriate crop for cultivation.