 Incubation/ acceleration centre should be on a divisional level with adequate fund support to build sizable/ scalable value chains. Government intervention is needed in market where FPC get cheated by buyers/ traders. Government should allow FPCs for external investment. CBBO kind of scheme supports for CEO’s, like wise it may support for other key positions. FPC movement’s objective should not be on number of the FPOs but it should be on the number of farmer families. Existing closed infrastructures/ facilities need to be allotted for good FPOs based on certain criteria. 59 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series . Contemporary Agricultural Research Contemporary Agricultural Research 60 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series 61 Contemporary Agricultural Research Ajay Kohli The restructuring of the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) research strategy is vital to be impactful. There is a 5-D circular research model which depends on demand, discovery, development, dissemination and distinction. Distinction here means distinctness of the product or process or policy which is part of monitoring and impact assessment. Start is from the demand and based on that demand we can take the process ahead to find ways of satisfying the demand. The specific demand would lead to discovery and development of the varieties/products/policies that go to dissemination. At the IRRI, after developing Dr Ajay Kohli is the Deputy Director General at the International Rice Research Institute, the Philippines. He is reorienting research quality and delivery strategy of the institute to meet needs and expectations of the donors, investors, partners and stakeholders. He is experienced in upstream research and innovation in the agriculture sector. RESTRUCTURING AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH TO FAST TRACK IMPACT AN INTEGRATIVE SYSTEMS PERSPECTIVE 62 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series variety, further study is how it will be more beneficial and has it been impactful. This creates distinctiveness. A research strategy for the next generation rice based agri- food system to address climate change includes predictive and fast-track breeding. More and more tools and technologies are required where the time period for variety release can be reduced. SWOT analysis can be extremely important in deciding what we want to address. In the systems approach, society, environment and economy, all these are combined together to get integrated solutions. This system approach depends on strategic partnership of public sector, private sector and NGO. Systems approach gives us the understanding of the system itself and on the other hand it also gives the understanding of the consequences which otherwise would remain unattended. So we have to think how do we build in the risk assessment through SWOT analysis and then decide what will be the thrust. This will keep us ready to deal with unexpected changes in any system.