 Pre-germinated seed can be sown directly into the ground using one of three methods: wet seeding, water seeding or dry planting onto a prepared seedbed. Farmers must be encouraged to switch from the conventional transplanting strategy to DSR culture by improved short duration and high yielding cultivars, nutrient management techniques, and weed control methods. Major reasons responsible for using DSR • Water-guzzling puddled transplanted rice: Traditional rice cultivation methods requires substantial amount of water. According to some sources, 1 kg of raw rice requires up to 5000 litres of water. A significant consumer of freshwater, rice accounts for around 50% of all irrigation water used in Asia, 24–30% of global freshwater withdrawals, and 34–43% of global irrigation water. Indian Farming 12 September 2023 • The increasing competition for water resources from non-agricultural sectors: Because of the growing population, declining water tables, decreasing water quality, ineffective irrigation infrastructure, and competition from non-agricultural industries, the percentage of water used for agriculture is rapidly diminishing. • The rising cost and scarcity of labour at peak periods: DSR reduces labour requirements by eliminating nursery raising, uprooting seedlings, transplanting, and puddling. • Adverse effects of puddling: Puddling creates a hard pan at shallow depth by destroying soil aggregates, dispersing small clay particles, and rupturing capillary pores. • Best fit in cropping system: Another factor for the quick adoption of DSR is the economic benefits brought out by the integration of an additional crop (crop intensification), in addition to the labour and water savings. DSR’s earlier maturity compared to PTR’s (transplanted rice) makes it a good fit for this crop in various cropping methods. Methods of DSR DSR can be established by 3 principal methods: transplanting, dry-DSR and wet-DSR. Transplanting: In Asia, especially in tropical regions, transplanting is the prevailing method of crop establishment. This approach involves transferring seedlings from nurseries and planting them in prepared, waterlogged soil. Dry DSR: In Dry-DSR, rice is established utilizing several different methods, including: • Broadcasting of dry seeds on unpuddled soil after either zero tillage (ZT) or conventional tillage (CT) ; • Using a dibbler technique in a prepared field and; • Row-by-row seed drilling utilizing a power tiller-operated seeder, ZT, or raised beds after CT. Wet DSR: Pre-germinated seeds (radicle 1–3 mm) are sown on or into puddles of soil using the wet-DSR technique. Pregerminated seeds are typically sown on the surface of puddled soil, and this is referred to as aerobic Wet-DSR. Pre-germinated seeds are usually sown or drilled into puddled soil, which creates an anaerobic Wet-DSR environment. Wet-DSR used with drum seeder or an anaerobic seeder with a furrow opener and closure.