 The ELISA results depicted a dramatic increase in the phospho-ERK (pERK) levels in all the treatment conditions. But there was no changes in the total-ERK levels with respect to the control recorded. Immunoblotting results corroborated with ELISA and qRT-PCR results. The qRT-PCR, ELISA and FACS analysis indicated that PGN and flagellin can potentially activate the ERK- signalling in kidney cells to induce IgM and IgZ synthesis as compared to Poly I:C (7.8-folds; 13.88- folds) and LPS (1.75-folds, 6.48-folds). Development of parthenogenetic goat from embryonic stem cells: Parthenogenetic caprine embryos died after approximately 34 days of gestation, with limited development of extra-embryonic tissues. The main reason for the halted development of asexual embryos is genomic imprinting, a chromosomal modification leading to parental-origin-specific gene expression in somatic cells. Tetraploid ivf embryos and diploid parthenogenetic embryonic stem cells can be aggregated to make chimeras. A protocol was standardized to produce chimeric embryos using tetraploid complementation assay. In vitro fertilized embryos were selected at 2 cell stage between 24-30hour post insemination. The chimeric embryos were produced by parthenogenetic embryonic stem cells and fertilized tetraploid embryo complementation. Chimeric embryos produced by aggregation method, were then cultured for the production of blastocyst stage embryos. Defense genes of tiger shrimp (Penaeus monodon) with respect to bacteria (Vibrio harveyi ) and whitespot virus (WSSV) infection: 2-D gel analysis was carried out with respect to different time point intervals of WSSV infection. Different spots were observed in white spot syndrome virus (WSSV) infected shrimps. The spots were excised and MALDI- TOF analysis revealed differentially expressed proteins. At 72 h post-infection, two of the proteins, viz. Tropomyosin and Arginine Kinase were overexpressed in WSSV infected tissues indicating specific role of these host proteins. Both conventional RT-PCR and real time analysis for differentially expressed genes with respect to WSSV infection were carried out. Expression analysis was carried out for about 22 defense genes. While it was difficult to differentiate the expression pattern by conventional RT-PCR, real time PCR could differentiate clearly the differences at different time point intervals. Immune genes involved in the Toll pathway of shrimp, such as Spatzle (extracellular ligand of Toll), myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88), tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), cactus (mammalian IkB homologue) and dorsal (mammalian NF-kB homologue) were characterized. Full gene sequencing of myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88), tumor necrosis factor receptor- associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and spatzle, and partial gene sequencing of cactus (mammalian IkB homologue) and dorsal (mammalian NF- kB homologue) was done.