 Notably, off- campus activities outweigh on-campus engagements, emphasizing the KVKs’ proactive outreach efforts. Impressively, 96% of farmers’ requests are attended to by KVKs, demonstrating their responsiveness to farmers’ needs. The adoption of KVK-recommended technologies has led to a notable 42% increase in productivity, while the resultant enhanced incomes are often directed towards improving education, healthcare, and housing. Moreover, each KVK annually trains about 100 individuals in agripreneurship, with approximately 25% of trainees embarking on self-employment ventures thereafter. KVKs also reported a competitive advantage over other organizations providing technology services. The impact study conducted by the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) in 2019 highlights the significant contributions of KVKs to agricultural development in India. It reveals that KVK interventions have resulted in an additional net farm income of `5752 per hectare, demonstrating their effectiveness in enhancing farmers’ livelihoods. Moreover, the study indicates a remarkably high rate of return on expenditure invested in KVKs, with one year of incremental gain covering approximately 12 years of expenditure. Additionally, the Benefit Cost Ratio for expenditure on KVKs is reported to be 11.78, underlining the favourable economic returns generated by KVK initiatives. These findings underscore the substantial impact and cost- effectiveness of KVKs in promoting agricultural productivity and income generation among farmers across the country. Other schemes and new initiatives KVKs are actively implementing several impactful schemes aimed at enhancing agricultural practices and empowering communities. Among these, ARYA (Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture) is being implemented across 100 KVKs. An appreciable effort has been made which could result to develop capacity of 65,661 youths, and translating their skills in establishing 14,878 enterprises and ensuring retention of youth in agriculture. Similarly, KSHAMTA (Knowledge Systems and Homestead Agriculture Management in Tribal Areas) covering 125 tribal districts have materialize in conducting 26,800 demonstrations and could train 200,000 tribal farmers. This has helped in promoting sustainable livelihoods, and conserving the indigenous knowledge systems. Considering the role of women in agriculture, NARI (Nutri-sensitive Agricultural Resources and Innovations) project is being implemented with the help of diverse stakeholders to influence sustainability of food and nutritional dynamics by empowering women in agriculture. Looking at the importance of sustainable agriculture, 425 KVKs have been instrumental in promoting natural farming by organizing 6,777 awareness programs engaging 6.80 lakh farmers, conducting 4,105 demonstrations, and developing the capacity of 37,978 farmers through 418 training programs.