 The advantages of drip irrigation include improved water and nutrient management, potential for improved yields and crop quality, less weed growth and Indian Farming 20 May 2023 pest and disease infestation, greater control on applied water resulting in less water and nutrient loss through deep percolation, and reduced total water requirements. Superior growth of vegetable with mulching and without mulching can be visualized in Table 1. Yield of tomato under mulching with 50% evapotranspiration (ET) drip irrigation system and without mulching with 100% ET drip irrigation system was similar (42.02-43.75 t/ha). Under mulching, the yield was significantly (P<0.05) improved at 80–100% ET (52.58– 57.87 t/ha). However, water use efficiency (WUE) under the above treatments with mulching were maximum at 50% ET (1.67 t/ha-cm) and minimum at 100% ET (1.10 t/ha- cm). The WUE was minimum (0.80 t/ha-cm) without mulch when the drip irrigation was done at 100% ET. Management of fruit fly using Cue Lure The melon fruit fly, Bactrocera cucurbitae (Coquillett) (Diptera: Tephritidae) is distributed widely in temperate, tropical, and sub-tropical regions of the world. It has been reported to damage 81 host plants and is a major pest of cucurbitaceous vegetables, particularly the bitter gourd (Momordica charantia), muskmelon (Cucumis melo), snap melon (C. melo var. momordica), and snake gourd (Trichosanthes cucumerina). The extent of losses varies between 30 to 100%, depending on the cucurbit species and the season. Its abundance increases when the temperatures fall below 32°C, and the relative humidity ranges between 60 to 70%. It prefers to infest young, green, soft-skinned fruits. It inserts the eggs 2–4 mm deep in the fruit tissues, and the maggots feed inside the fruit. Pupation occurs in the soil at 0.5–15 cm below the soil surface. Keeping in view the importance of the pest and crop, melon fruit fly management could be done using local area management and wide area management. The melon fruit fly can successfully be managed over a local area by bagging fruits, field sanitation, protein baits, Cue-lure traps, growing fruit fly- resistant genotypes, augmentation of biocontrol agents, and soft insecticides (Table 2). Cue Lure: mix Ethyl Alcohal-60 ml + Cue Lure (p-Acetooxyphenylbutanaoe-2) 40 ml + malathion 20 ml (i.e. in the ratio of 6:4:2) were demonstrated and distributed in bitter gourd, ridge gourd and cucumber crops of 99 number of farmers. for quality vegetable seedling production, where seedlings are produced under shade net and such seedlings have better germination, appears healthy and are protected from pest and diseases and build-up well developed root system within 25–30 days.