 Similarly, in productivity, Coimbatore, Dindigul, Krishnagiri and Salem districts witnessed positive growth and Theni had negative trend. Theni 509 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 district experienced negative growth rates in area, production and productivity. Hence, Theni district requires special efforts to boost production of tomato. Tapioca During the 11th five year plan period, the average area under Tapioca crop in the State was 1.28 lakh ha with production of 48.10 lakh tonnes and productivity of 37,190 kg/ha grown in 14 districts in the State. The performance of the crop with respect to growth rates shows that the growth rate of area was positive in eight districts. Similarly, the production and productivity was positive in seven districts. Negative trend in area was found in Cuddalore, Kanyakumari, Perambalur, Salem, Tirunelveli, and Thiruvallur districts. In the same way, the growth rate in production was negative in Cuddalore, Kanyakumari, Perambalur, Salem, Nilgiris, Tirunelveli and Thiruvallur districts. The area, production and productivity of tapioca were found to be negative in Cuddalore, Perambalur, Tirunelveli and Thiruvallur districts. This indicates that measures have to be taken as development strategy for tapioca to increase the productivity in these districts. Cashew nut The average area under Cashew nut was one lakh ha with a production of 50,034 tonnes and productivity of 500 kg/ha covering five districts in Tamil Nadu. The growth trend of area was positive in Cuddalore and Tirunelveli districts and negative trend was seen in Kanyakumari, Sivagangai and Vellore districts. The production was positive only in Kanyakumari district and negative trend was found in the remaining four districts. In the same way, positive growth of productivity was noticed in Kanyakumari and Vellore districts and negative trend was seen in Cuddalore, Sivagangai and Tirunelveli districts. In Sivagangai district, area, production and productivity of cashew nut was negative. Therefore, the development strategy must focus on increasing the area and productivity of the crop so as to keep increasing production in Sivagangai district. Onion Onion is the important vegetable crop, grown in six districts namely Dindigul, Erode, Namakkal, Perambalur, Salem and Tiruppur districts. In Tamil Nadu, the average area under onion was 31,592 ha with production of 3.02 lakh tonnes and productivity was 9,834 kg/ha. The growth rates presented in depict that an uptrend in area was noticed in Perambalur and Tiruppur districts and downtrend was seen in Dindigul, Erode, Namakkal and Salem districts. The positive trend of production and productivity was found in Dindigul, Erode, Perambalur and Tiruppur districts. The negative trend of production was found in Namakkal and Salem districts. Likewise, a negative growth of productivity was seen in Perambalur district. Hence, Tamil Nadu State needs development strategy to boost production of onion.