 It was being cultivated in India, China and other countries of the east as the source of indigo, but was replaced first by I. sumatrana and later by I. arrecta. Twig Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK 264 Ethno-veterinary practices in cattle Volume 2, page 434 Vettukayapoondu, gingelly, Calotropis, pirandai, kuppaimeni, palampasi, kollankovai kizhangu, manamurukki and boomi vanangi Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Names in Indian languages Botanical name Active ingredients Palampasi: Assamese: boriala; Bengali: pila-barelashihar, sweet berela; Gujarati: balajungli-methi, bala dungaraubal; Hindi: bariara, kareta, kharenta; Kannada: cheruparuva, maltanni; Marathi: Tupkaria, tukati, chikana, pata; Oriya: ancharna, siobola, sunakhodika; Tamil: vattatirippi, malaitangi, mayir-manikham, pazhampassi, ariva-mooku kelrai, pon musuttai, kayapunalu; Telugu: neelabenda, visha boddi, chitimutti, mutuvapulagam. Palampasi: Sida acuta Burm. f. Palampasi: It has demulcent and diuretic properties. Leaf juice is given for relief in chest pain and as an anthelmintic. It is useful in nervous and urinary diseases, disorders of blood and bile, and in chronic bowel complaints. Geographical indications : Palampasi: An erect, perennial shrub 1.5 m high, distributed throughout the hotter parts of India. Bark smooth, greenish, root thin, long, cylindrical, very rough, contorted, leaves lanceolate, linear lanceolate, obovate-lanceolate or lanceolate-oblong, glabrous, flowers yellow, solitary or in pairs, seeds smooth, black. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2508 Use of dried stems of vasambu {Acorus calamus) for dehorning in cattle Volume 2, supplement I, page 101 Vasambu Refer to ITK Code No. 138 Code Title of the ITK 2567 Use of extract of snake-gourd (Trichosanthus cucumerina) with amalgam to cure white spot in eye of animals Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Volume 2, supplement I, page 101 Snakegourd Flower Habit Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Bengali: banpatol; Gujarati: kadwam-parwal; Hindi: jangli- chachinda; Kannada: bettada-padawala; Malayalam: pepatolam; Marathi: ranacha padawal; Sanskrit: amritaphala, kashtbhanjan; Tamil: paeypuda; Telugu: chetipotla. Snake-gourd Trichosanthes cucumerina Linn. The root is used as a cure for bronchitis, headache and boils. The leaves are used in biliousness; their juice is emetic. The seeds are considered antifebrile and anthelmintic. Seed extracts possess haemagglutinating activity. It is an extensive, dioecious, annual climber, found throughout India.