 This innovative farmers-scientists interface delved into diverse facets aimed at elevating the yield levels of redgram. Amidst the collaborative discussions, progressive farmers and ICAR-KVK scientists forged a collective brainstorming session, ultimately giving rise to groundbreaking notions centered around transplanting and dibbling technology. This symbiotic exchange of insights could possibly transform redgram cultivation, promising a surge in productivity and the fortification of agricultural practices in the region. To assess this Redgram seedlings Field visit to redgram transplanting demo plot Redgram seedlings in main field Redgram transplanting demo plot Aerial view of redgram transplanting demo plot million tonnes, 34.55% of national production), West Bengal (10.53%), Bihar (8.84%) and Jharkhand (4.53%). Redgram is one of the major pulse crops of Northern Karnataka and cultivated in 5.14 lakh ha with a production of 2.42 lakh tonnes (766 kg/ha). Bidar district is considered as pulse bow] of Karnataka wherein pulses like blackgram, greengram, redgram and bengalgram are major crops comprises 2,06,717 ha. Among these pulses, the share of redgram is to the extent of 65,642 ha. Redgram is one of the most important commercial crops for dryland farmers. However, cultivation of redgram in dry land faces major agronomic constraints like traditional cultivation practices, improper sowing time, inadequate plant population, defective method of sowing, inadequate intercultural operations, inadequate use of phosphatic fertilizers and improper method of application, apart i < Field visit to redgram transplanting demo plot from water scarcity, uncertainty of rainfall leading to low productivity. Efforts of ICAR-KVK, Bidar In an effort to narrow the yield gap, ICAR Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Bidar orchestrated a dynamic convergence between farmers and _ scientists. This innovative farmers-scientists interface delved into diverse facets aimed at elevating the yield levels of redgram. Amidst the collaborative discussions, progressive farmers and ICAR-KVK scientists forged a collective brainstorming session, ultimately giving rise to groundbreaking notions centered around transplanting and dibbling technology. This symbiotic exchange of insights could possibly transform redgram cultivation, promising a surge in productivity and the fortification of agricultural practices in the region. To assess this a oe Redgram transplanting demo plot Aerial view of redgram transplanting demo plot Indian Farming March 2024 81 Indian Farming 82 March 2024 idea, the scientists of ICAR-KVK designed trials about transplanting technology. ICAR-KVK, Bidar laid out a feeler trial during 2004-05 for studying the transplanting method for 50 plants and obtained good results.