 Elimination of the small pox and polio from the planet: These two viruses have been a curse on humanity. Prof. Gurdev Singh Khush had led the rice-breeding programme of the Interbational Rice Research Istitute (IRRI) for 35 years, which has played an important role in the green revolution in rice. 21 Sustainable Agriculture 4. Green revolution: earlier to green revolution there used to be lot of famines. There were four major famines in 19th century: famine of Bengal, China, Bangladesh and Ethiopia. Green revolution provided food security. Before green revolution, crop varieties were tall, long duration, disease susceptible, their harvest index and production were low and the varieties produced during the green revolution were dwarf, short duration, disease resistant and with higher harvest index and production. Even after a huge success of green revolution, Indian agriculture still faces following challenges: Crop varieties with low yields and poor nutrition; Degraded soils; Stressed water resources and Poor crop diversity. These problems can be solved by developing resistant crop varieties through breakthroughs in genetics and molecular biology; developing biofortified crop varieties for better nutrition; improving soil health and improving water management and enhanced crop diversity. Gene editing for development of new crop varieties is one of the major breakthroughs in the last 10-12 years to develop new varieties. And the Discovery of new genes has also helped a lot in crop improvement. Mention can be made of some of the following: 1. KRN2 gene increases number of grains in maize corn. 2. OSTRR gene increases number of grains in rice. 3. Highlander gene derived from Arabidopsis produces sterile progenies and is sought after gene by plant breeders to produce male- sterile lines. 4. Gene in wild wheat for inhibiting biological nitrification. This gene inhibits nitrification thus allowing absorption of all fertilizers efficiently. Some gene-edited crops already existing are: powdery mildew resistant wheat crop, gene edited barley and potato. Central government has also passed an order that SDN1 and SDN2 type gene editing will not require regulatory process stipulated for genetically modified (GM) crops. Gene modifications has been used for development of new crops. Indian agriculture has been deprived of benefits from the use of genetic engineering technology due to moratorium on genetically modified (GM) crops. Only GM crop grown in India is cotton. In other countries this technology of genetic modification has been utilized in other crops like Bt corn, Bt brinjal, GM Canola and GM wheat. In India, malnutrition is prevalent due to deficiency of iron, zinc and vitamin- A and its consequences are higher mortality, lower cognitive ability, lower work productivity, stunted growth of children.