 Student Management, Faculty Management, Course Management, Administration Management and E- Learning. Thus, AMS facilitates in automation of various academic processes of the University and enhances the transparency and efficiency of the overall system by saving time and efforts involved in manual processes. At present, the system is operational in 30 agricultural universities and implementation was initiated in another 22 universities. KRISHI-MEGH (NARES Cloud Infrastructure and Services): With the endeavour to modernize and digitize the agricultural sector in the country, the National Agricultural Research and Information System- Cloud Infrastructure and Services named KRISHI-MEGH was initiated. This platform is established by ICAR-IASRI under the ICAR-World Bank’s National Agricultural Higher Education Project’s (NAHEP) with the core objectives of improving access of agricultural universities to the ICAR Data Centre using sophisticated IT solutions. Spatial meta data repository: Geospatial Metadata consists of metadata elements of spatial data in a documented and structured format. Geo-spatial metadata provides the geospatial data producers with the format and content for properly describing their data, allowing users to evaluate the usefulness of the data in addressing their specific needs. Geo-spatial metadata serves two ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 135 SOCIAL SCIENCE KrishiMegh was strategically established at NAARM, Hyderabad, due to its suitable geographical and climatic disposition. KrishiMegh integrates the ICAR Data Centre at ICAR-Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute (IASRI), New Delhi with the Disaster Recovery Centre at the ICAR-National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM), Hyderabad. The platform is equipped with latest Artificial Intelligence (AI)/Deep- Learning Software/toolkits that enable development and execution of deep learning-based applications for agricultural research and development in the country. Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare launched KrishiMegh. The platform was well received, and is also in consonance with the New Education Policy 2020 that beckons provision of relevant and high-quality educational resources to Agricultural University students in India. Krishi Vishwavidyalaya Chhatr Alumni Network– KVC ALUNET: Krishi Vishwavidyalaya Chhatr Alumni Network– KVC ALUNET was developed by ICAR-IASRI under NAHEP-component-2. This digital alumni platform will foster the development of a vibrant multicultural Alumni association wherein alumni can contribute towards strengthening their existing networks, interact in real time and participate in university level events. KVC ALUNET was established to facilitate alumni from 74 agricultural universities onto a common platform. Furthermore, this platform will help current students’ network with alumni for internships and placements.