 This mixture is orally given to the cattle with a bamboo pipe. This mixture may be repeated again after 1 hr to get satisfactory result. The efficacy is 80- 90%. Keywords: thore, dropping, placenta, cactus Sometimes placenta does not drop naturally in animals; then the cattle owners of village Mantal of Ahmedabad (Gujarat) collect 400-450 g green leaves of kanthi (Capparis repiaria) and take out the extract. Extract is mixed with buttermilk and drenched to animal with bamboo pipe. It is given 2-3 times at an interval of 1 hr 30 min., if single dose is not effective. It is being used since time Shri Vidhya Dut, Laboratory Attendant, Department of Bio- Sciences, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh. Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3319 Treatment with sugarcane leaf for expulsion of placenta in animals 3320 Use of wheat grain, butter and sesame oil for dropping of retained placenta 3321 Removal of retained placenta by using a mixture of bamboo leaves, jaggery and ajwaine 3322 Expulsion of placenta in animals by feeding gular immemorial. Keywords: buttermilk, kanthi In the Jhadol area the farmers reported that for retention of placenta they provide most common treatment based on easy availability of the material. Sugarcane is grown in the area. They wait for 3 hr for natural expulsion of placenta, and after that they feed top leaves of 2-3 standing sugarcane plant. Placenta is expelled within 6 hr. Keywords: placenta, sugarcane About 500 g wheat grains, 300 g of butter and 300 ml sesame oil are mixed together and this mixture given to the needy animal. This practice is repeated again after 1-2 hr, if she animal has not dropped the retained placenta. The efficacy is 70-80%. Keywords: sesame, placenta, butter, wheat Sometimes placenta does not drop after calving in animals, which badly affects milk production. To overcome this problem cattle owner feed a mixture of 500 g green bamboo leaves, 500 g jaggery and 100 g ajwaine (Trachyspermum ammi). A few other farmers drench mustard oil (250 ml) with lukewarm water (500 ml). Keywords: retained placenta, bamboo leaves, jaggery, ajwaine, mustard oil, water After calving in animals (cattle and buffalo) placenta drops out naturally. In some cases placenta is retained in the body. To avoid complications, timely efforts are being made by the people of village Khohara of district Karuli in eastern Rajasthan.