 Ovary superior, unilocular, bi-carpellate, narrowly linear to broadly ovate- oblong in shape, with parietal placentation; style slender, 10 mm long with flattened, quadrangular stigma with two horn-like projections or notches at apex; maturing ovary forcing its way out of fused inner petals, resulting in petals and sepals being shed. Fruit consists of an indehiscent, fleshy capsule that is ovate to oblong in shape, pale yellow-white when immature, turning purplish (in this stock, though other collections are said to have red capsules), and smooth on the inside. Seeds are numerous, 50–60, separating easily from funiculi and falling into the centre of the fruit. They are purplish black, about 1–2 mm in diameter, and reniform in shape, with some papillae larger away from the funiculus. Elaiosomes are small, rudimentary, whitish and translucent. Indian Horticulture 36 Chemical composition and pharmacological activity A new subtype of aporphines, Dactyllactone A (1) isolated from Dactylicapnos scandens is an isoquinoline alkaloid with a rearranged and built D-ring. The average recovery of Protopine and Isocorydine is 97.9%, 98.6% respectively, and RSD 1.3%, 1.4%. Dactylicapnos scandens, and two aporphine alkaloids, (+) corydine (1) and (+) glaucine (2), were discovered in the roots and identified using UV, IR, MS, and 1H NMR spectroscopy. Alkaloids from D. scandens were separated using equipment with an adjustable length of the separation column and it was found that, 1.0 g of the crude extracts yielded 70 mg of protopin, 30 mg (+) corydine, 120 mg (+) isocorydine, and 40 mg (+) glaucine. HPLC determined the purity of each sample to be 99.2%, 96.5%, 99.3%, and 99.5%, and the chemical structures of these compounds were supported by successful ESI-MS and 1H NMR results. The antidermatophytic and antibacterial activity of D. scandens tuberous root is due to crude alkaloids extract. The crude alkaloids extract was tested against seven fungi, including Candida albicans, Trichosporon beigeslii, Trichophyton rubrum, Trichophyton tonsurans, and Microsporum gypseum, as well as four bacteria, including Bacillus mycoides and Escherichia spp. The researchers have discovered that the crude alkaloids extract displayed antibacterial activity against all infections tested. Although the percentage of growth inhibition varied from species to species, a maximum of 53.13% inhibition was seen against T. mentagrophytes. Research revealed the potential for broad range antibacterial action in D. scandens, which could be investigated for the potential for pharmaceutical uses. Importance and uses All around the world, there is a “renaissance” of herbal use as a result of the return of herbs. Contrasted with synthetics, which are viewed as hazardous to both humans and the environment, herbal products today represent safety.