 151 Chapter 14 Gender Empowerment through Village Institutions and Education SK Srivastava and G Maharana “Woman is the companion of man, gifted with equal mental capacity. If by strength is meant moral power, then woman is immeasurably man’s superior.” MK Gandhi 1. Introduction The role and position of women in India has been witnessed in different eras and in different classes, religion, and ethnic group. Exploitation of women in and outside their home was prevailing in the society. There were many philosophers, social reformers and thinkers like Raja Ram Mohan Roy, Swami Dayanand Saraswati, who strived endlessly to bring the change in the condition of Indian women during the period which may empower them to become “better wives” and “better mothers. He believed that man and women are as equals and complementing each other. Women were considered as ‘self-conscious objects’ according to Gandhiji and he integrated them in the ‘masses’ in a most natural way. He recognized that due to the conservativeness attitude of the men, different traditional customs and law, women have been concealed under different circumstances. There had been many examples where women have been taught to consider themselves as slaves of men. But now the time has come to realize the status of women in society and give them equal right as equals of men. Mahatma Gandhi characterized women as of ‘ahimsa’, which represents love and infinite capacity for suffering. 2. Gandhiji’s view on Gender Equality Mahatma Gandhi, the father of the nation was a great human being in the form of a leader, philosopher, and an educational pioneer of great repute. He tried to establish a free and casteless society without any exploitation and racial discrimination. Gandhiji strongly emphasized that there should be no inequality in the wages paid to men and women. He could understand that the success of the Swadeshi movement was possible as women spun yarn and weave cloth in large numbers. He felt that women should not feel any legal disability, which is not suffered by men. Women should learn the rights as well as duties. She thereby has the right to participate in every activities of man and has an equal right to freedom and liberty with him. Therefore both boys, as well as girls, should be educated but it is only the primary education for the two sexes that have much in common. According him there must be certain provision for separate 152 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR arrangements for the education of girls after their attaining a particular age. Domestic tasks should be taught to them for practical application in daily life. Gandhiji was seriously worried about those widespread social issues during the period. He was against of the child marriage, purdah system, dowry system etc., which crippled women’s movement in the society and restricted their advancement and capacity for doing work useful towards the society.