 Š Š Before introduction of new batches of chicks in the farm, the Poultry houses should be cleaned properly and disinfected with 60-70 g of KMnO4 mixed with 120-150 ml of formalin solution per 10 cubic feet space. Place the birds in the shed after 24 hrs of fumigation. Š Š In case of deep litter system of rearing in Poultry, the litter material should be dried completely before using it as bedding material and the litter material should be turned and raked weekly and should be replaced with a new litter material before a new batch is introduced Š Š Ensure vaccination of chicks against Ranikhet disease, Marek disease, Fowl pox and Infectious bursal disease. Š Š Provide a minimum of 23 hrs light in the brooder continuously and 16 hrs light for adult birds during the laying period. Š Š De-beaking should be done as early as 1 day to 6 weeks and should be repeated at 16 weeks of age if necessary. Š Š Poultry farmers are suggested for regular supplementation of vitamin and mineral mixture (Grow B-plex/Ambiplex) @ 10-20 ml/100 birds and calcium to the layer during laying period @ 30-40 ml/100 birds to prevent soft shell. Š Š Deworming of Poultry birds should be done at the age of 6-8 weeks with Albomar liquid @ 45ml/100 birds in drinking water once in early morning with empty stomach. De-worming can also be done with piperazine hydrochloride @ 5ml/10 birds. Goat: (Beetal, Assam hill goat) Š Š Ensure deworming of Goat with fenbendazole @ 7.5-10 mg/kg body weight orally especially young kids. Š Š Goat should be vaccinated against PPR & FMD at the age of 3 months and then re-vaccinate annually. Š Š Goat farmers are advised for regular supplementation of mineral mixture @ 10-15 g/head/day for adult and calcium to the lactating and pregnant doe @ 10-15 ml/head/day. Post Harvest Technology Assam Lemon RTS Š Š The lemons are washed thoroughly to remove dirt and any other residue and dried completely Š Š The peel of the fruit is removed and then sliced in half Š Š The sliced fruits are then transferred to the juice extractor to extract the juice Š Š Juice is filtered and pasteurized at 60oC for 2 minutes Š Š Sugar syrup is prepared adding sugar and water and boiled and then cooled and filtered to remove impurities if any Š Š The juice is added to the strained syrup and mixed thoroughly ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 110 Š Š Potassium metabisulphite and salt is dissolved initially in a little amount of RTS and poured slowly into the remaining. Š Š RTS is immediately filled into sterilized bottles and sealed air tight Š Š Bottles are stored at cool and dry place. Bamboo Shoot Pickle Š Š Young bamboo shoot. Š Š Remove outer inedible part. Š Š Wash with water and boil for 5-10 minutes. Š Š Slice into pieces. Š Š Heat oil in a pan, add sliced bamboo shoot. Š Š Add spices (crush ginger, garlic, cumin, coriander powder, chilli, turmeric, mustard powder, wild coriander/ Burmese coriander etc (pickle masala).