k jkT; ea=h Hkkjr ljdkj Ñf"k Hkou] ubZ fnYyh MINISTER OF STATE FOR AGRICULTURE & FARMERS WELFARE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA KRISHI BHAWAN, NEW DELHI MESSAGE I am very happy to learn that on the occasion of International Year of Millets 2023, Indian Farming the popular ICAR magazine has brought out an special issue. The people have paid attention towards millet (pearl millet, sorghum, finger millet, little millet, barnyard millet, kodo millet) for their role in combating challenges of malnutrition and hunger in various countries. These millets possess greater amount of nutritional substances than wheat, rice and maize. Millets are resilient and rain-fed crops that thrive in dry regions and grow well in conditions of low soil fertility and moisture with less inputs. Growing millets is a step towards sustainability and food security. Hon’ble Prime Minister of India has also stressed the importance of making millets a future food option. Several countries are organizing myriad of programmes to make aware the public about nutritional usefulness of the millets. I am happy to note that advantages of farming of millets and their food products and nutritional facts of these products have been documented in this unique issue. I wish success to this souvenir issue. Best wishes for the New Year 2023. (Kailash Choudhary) Indian Farming 5 January 2023 'kksHkk djkanykts SHOBHA KARANDLAJE Ñf”k ,oa fdlku dY;k.k jkT; ea=h Hkkjr ljdkj Ñf"k Hkou] ubZ fnYyh MINISTER OF STATE FOR AGRICULTURE & FARMERS WELFARE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA KRISHI BHAWAN, NEW DELHI MESSAGE I am happy to know that on the occasion of the onset of International Year of Millets 2023, ICAR is publishing Indian Farming as millets special issue. I have been informed that this special issue is specifically devoted to the richness of information on millets. Articles highlighting the status and increasing demand of millets globally, fighting malnutrition and commercial importance of processed products from the millets have also been presented. Undoubtedly, the farming community can be attracted towards cultivation of millets as an alternative to traditional major crops by the knowledge provided through this issue. Congratulations to Indian Farming team who have made efforts to enrich the publication with diverse knowledge related to millets. I offer my best wishes for the special issue put forward and hope that it shall prove as a milestone and achieve its objective. Have a great year ahead. (Shobha Karandlaje) Indian Farming 6 January 2023 MkW- fgeka'kq ikBd lfpo (Ms;j) ,oa egkfuns'kd (HkkÑvuqi) Dr HIMANSHU PATHAK SECRETARY (DARE) & DIRECTOR GENERAL (ICAR) Hkkjr ljdkj Ñf"k vuqla/ku vkSj f'k{kk foHkkx ,oa Hkkjrh; Ñf"k vuqla/ku ifj"kn Ñf"k ,oa fdlku dY;k.k ea=kky;] Ñf"k Hkou] ubZ fnYyh 110 001 MESSAGE I t is indeed a matter of great happiness that the January 2023 issue of Indian Farming, is being brought out as special issue on millets.