 The platform allows users to download/upload multiple documents, create projects/events, upload pictures, ability to collaborate using discussion forums and dashboard for decision support system. • Developed ICAR-AU-Grievance Redressal and Monitoring System for Agricultural Universities, which is an online platform (https:// education.icar.gov.in/grms/GRMS.aspx) which primarily aims to raise grievances on admissions, fellowships, accreditation of universities and related matters by the students/faculty with ease KISAAN 2.0 (Krishi Integrated Solution for Agri Apps Navigation) App The KISAAN 2.0 (Krishi Integrated Solution for Agri Apps Navigation) App, was envisaged to help e- agriculture and to drive smart phone based agriculture in India. This app integrates more than 300 Agricultural related apps developed by ICAR Institutes in an aggregator android mobile app. KISAN 2.0 was developed based on data being provided through Web services from ICAR Mobile App Gallery (KRISHI Portal) as is clearly shown in Architecture of Kisan 2.0 in Note # 3. The developing Institutes would provide data on KRISHI Portal and it would automatically be ported to KISAN 2.0. Therefore, any new application developed will be added to KISAN 2.0 and discontinued application would get removed from this mobile app. It was developed to make farming convenient for Indian farmer. KISAAN 2.0 app provides a single interface in multiple Indian languages for Indian farmers to access agricultural knowledge about crops, horticulture, livestock, fisheries, natural resource management, agricultural engineering, agricultural education and agricultural extension. This app will revolutionize the way how an Indian farmer avails information on advance agricultural technologies, seeds, varieties and livestock as per their requirement leveraging the accelerated Internet and smart phones penetration in our country. Salient features • Available in 12 regional languages. • Subject-wise interactive dashboard. • Includes 300+ Agri-Apps. • Keyword based search. • Option for switching language. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 131 SOCIAL SCIENCE Gender sensitive agri-nutrition Different nutrition enhancing technologies were evaluated in participatory mode among women farmers in Sankilo and Tentalpur villages of Nishintakoili block in Cuttack district of Odisha. Average demonstration yield of newly introduced rice varieties (6.2 tonnes/ ha) was higher (56.2%) in comparison to existing farmers’ practice with variety Puja. In dairy farming component, the adoption rate of feeding balanced ration supplemented with mineral mixture was found to be most preferable (62%), followed by fodder cultivation of perennial protein rich fodder (50%), chaffing of green fodder (42%) and feeding total mixed ration (38%). Under NASF project, gender gap indicators were identified and assessed using the SHEET (social-health-environmental-economic- technological) module from a sample comprising 40 farm families.