 CS6 i Name of the Applicant Association of Agro Meteorologists, Department of Agricultural Meteorology, AAU, Anand, New Delhi ii Title National Seminar (AGMET) on Agro meteorology for sustainable Development with special emphasis on Agrometeorological Practices for Climate Resilient Farming and Food Security 17 iii Venue and Date(s) 12-14 October 2017 at College of Agriculture, CCS HAU, Hisar, Haryana iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.50 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(46)/2017-Cdn.(Tech.) vi Recommendations: Š Š Creation of E-Agromet Knowledge Bank using advanced ICT tools at state level needs to be encouraged following the initiatives of ICAR for Climate Resilient Agriculture. Š Š Agro-meteorology being a comparative young but essential discipline, exclusive opportunities be created for human resources development and advanced level training at ASRB/ICAR/ SAUs. Š Š ICAR should encourage the SAUs to establish separate Department of Agricultural Meteorology in each SAU and start PG programs. Š Š ICAR may institute Advance Training Centers in Agricultural Meteorology. Setting up a center within the administrative structure of ICAR will certainly boost the climate change research activities in agriculture in India. CS7 i Name of the Applicant ICAR-Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu ii Title International Symposium on Sugarcane Research : 100 Years and Beyond iii Venue and Date(s) 18-21 September, 2017 at ICAR-SBI, Coimbatore iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 7.00 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.F.No.24(7 )/2017-Cdn(Tech) vi Recommendations: Š Š A distribution map of the Saccharin genetic resources in India may be prepared based on the collections made. Š Š Characterization of the germplasm should be done for tolerance with respect to high temperature, water stress, water logging, salinity and enhanced CO2 availability. Š Š The long history of sugarcane breeding has given valuable information on parental behavior, across performance and progeny values, which have to be put in as databases. Š Š There is need to use drone and satellite imageries to delineate the areas affected by drought, pest and disease incidence, nutritional stress, and potential water resources and also sugarcane yield and quality assessment. CROP SCIENCE Compendium Salient Recommendations 18 CS8 i Name of the Applicant All India Agricultural Students Association (AIASA), NASC Complex, New Delhi. ii Title National Youth Convention on Agriculture Innovations on Food and Nutritional Security and Rural Livelihood Sustainability iii Venue and Date(s) 20th February, 2017; University of Agricultural Sciences- Raichur iv ICAR's Sanction F. No. and Date Rs. 3.00 Lakhs v ICAR's Sanction no. F. No. 23(103)/2016-Cdn.(Tech.) vi Recommendations: Š Š There is a need of providing basic knowledge of agriculture at the primary level education.