 The bibliometric analysis primarily focuses on scientific publications; however, it may not have included other types of literature, such as governmental and regulatory documents. Therefore, while this study provides valuable insights into the trends and gaps in CCRASAI research, it might not capture the full breadth of knowledge and developments in this domain. 4.2. Future directions for CCRASAI research Despite these limitations, this study points to several promising directions for future research on CCRASAI. One of the significant directions can be exploring the practical application of advanced digital technologies to achieve climate resilience and sustainability in Table 10 The statistical information about the cluster “Vulnerability assessment”. Cluster Keywords Links Occurrences 5 Climate 10 10 5 Crop yields 4 5 5 Impact 10 10 5 Indian agriculture 4 5 5 Sensitivity 6 7 5 Vulnerability 20 20 Table 11 The statistical information about the cluster “Climate smart agriculture and drought." Cluster Keywords Links Occurrences 6 Climate resilient agriculture 4 5 6 Climate smart agriculture 10 11 6 Drought 14 10 6 Livestock 5 7 6 Rainwater harvesting 2 5 Table 12 The statistical information about the cluster “Climate change adaptation in agriculture.” Cluster Keywords Links Occurrences 7 adaptation 32 54 7 agriculture 31 67 7 livelihoods 5 5 7 water 6 7 B. Baraj et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e29586 14 agriculture. Research should also focus on agro-climatic regions which are under-studied and are likely to be more impacted by climate change. Furthermore, there is a need to foster research that prioritizes the needs of small and marginal farmers, who constitute the majority of India’s farming population. Along with this, the conversion of research into actionable products for creating awareness and providing last-mile connectivity to farmers is of paramount importance. Lastly, a more significant emphasis should be placed on how research findings can be practically utilized by the Government and end-users to mitigate climate change impacts. Such efforts can pave the way for achieving better climate resilience and sustainability in the agriculture sector in India. Ethical Approval: Not applicable. Consent to Participate: Not applicable. Consent to Publish: Not applicable. Funding Not applicable. Data availability Data will be available on request. CRediT authorship contribution statement Biswaranjan Baraj: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft, Visualization, Methodology, Formal analysis, Concep­ tualization. Manoranjan Mishra: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft, Visualization, Methodology, Formal analysis, Conceptualization. Desul Sudarsan: Writing – original draft, Visualization, Data curation. Richarde Marques da Silva: Writing – review & editing. Celso Augusto Guimar˜aes Santos: Validation, Visualization, Writing – review & editing.