 The quiz, midterm and final examination of winter semester were conducted online and results were declared. Out of total 1,197 students, 887 ongoing students were admitted to the Monsoon semester, 2020 and their classes were started online. To enhance the visibility of the University, the provision was made for admission of In-service students, overseas students and Industry sponsored students; and the application has already been invited for their admission in new session (2020–21) in PG and PhD programme. Initiative taken for re-skilling of migrant returnee during COVID-19 pandemic The university came forward to shoulder the responsibility of re-skilling the Migrant returnee (labourers) through technologies developed by the university to help them in their rehabilitation. Following were special trainings were started at the University headquarters and various KVKs in the University: • Household waste-management and other wastes for organic manures Proud moment The honorable Prime Minister of India Sri Narendra Modi ji has inaugurated the new building of School of Agribusiness and Rural Management and also laid the foundation stone of new facilities—hostels, International Guest house etc. on 10 September 2020. PARTNERSHIP AND LINKAGES ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 171 • Rearing of fast-growing Boar breed of goat • Mushroom cultivation, production and processing. • Culturing of fish wherever good water depth is available • Use of University’s developed solar cart for hygienic sale and keeping the product for longer using solar energy • Re-circulating aquaculture in lesser space • Wealth from waste like produce from banana, bamboo, pigeon pea stems, etc. • Skill development, technical know-how and maintenance work training • Empowering women in small know-how like Herbal Gulal making, Energy food preparation, value-addition like mushroom processing by making samosa, ladoo, snacks pickles, ornamental fish culture and honey production. Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University (RLBCAU), Jhansi (UP) The Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University, Jhansi made sustained strides towards achieving its mandated objectives and goals in the field of agricultural education, research and extension as an institution of national importance. Academics New PG programme in Soil Science, Entomology, Vegetable Science, Fruit Science and Silvi culture and Agro-forestry, were initiated in postgraduate from the current academic session. The University Internal Quality Assessment Cell was made fully functional with the defined goals and functions. In the wake of COVID-19 global pandemic, best possible efforts were made to train both the teachers and the students to continue planned educational activities on digital platform. Research The University released its first ever variety RLB Chana Kabuli-1 (RLBGK 1).