 Domestic trade of ornamental fisheries valued around ` 600 crores mainly contributing from local aquarium shops across the country. The trade is mainly concentrated at major metro cities like Kolkata, Chennai, Mumbai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Bangalore and Cochin. The key production is from small scale production units within 1 acre of land and investment within ` 3 lakhs. Around 50% of this trade value is mainly of imported accessories for use in urban aquariums. Commercially important ornamental fishes There are around 30 important fish families which constitute as ornamental fish varieties which are traded worldwide. Live bearers belonging to poecilidae is one among commercial fishes, which are easy to culture and breed in small tanks. Koi carp and gold fish belonging to cyprinidae are one of the oldest domesticated fishes and are seen with number of varieties. Tetra, angel fish, discus fish, fighter fish, gourami, barbs, catfishes, etc. are other groups which are most preferred in freshwater. Dozens of varieties of these fishes have been developed by the fish breeders in the sector. Certain varieties fetch higher price than the Indian Farming 70(11):34–37; November 2020 Ornamental aquaculture An alternative avenue for livelihood support Saroj K.Swain*, Sunil S. Ail and M.K. Bairwa ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneswar, Odisha 751 002 Ornamental aquaculture is among hobbyist farming types where aesthetic sense of human prevails. This can be taken as an addition to other farming practices like beekeeping, mushroom cultivation, etc. It can be taken up in small range of initial capital or in a large scale also. Thus, there is an ample scope for livelihood development through ornamental fish farming in villages. Ornamental fisheries involve wide area of business including culture and breeding of fishes, aquarium construction and design, culture of aquatic plants, live food culture, etc. Keywords: Aquaculture, Backyard ornamental fisheries, ICAR-CIFA, Ornamental fish village Fig. 1. A mini backyard model ornamental hatchery in 400 sq. ft. area at ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture for the beginners who wants to venture in ornamental fish farming. Indian Farming November 2020 35 normal fish, this is due to variation in fish colour within the species. Most of the important varieties are imported from countries like Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia and Sri Lanka where ornamental fish breeding and culture is more than in India. There are indigenous fishes mainly from two biodiversity hotspots which are collected from the wild and exported. This has caused decline in fish stocks and threat to the natural biodiversity. Therefore, in order to conserve such important fish varieties breeding and culture of important indigenous fishes the study has to be carried out. Backyard ornamental unit in rural areas The major hitch among small scale farmers is the availability of land for farming.