 (b) Any notice or other communication issued through post shall be deemed to have been served on the day following the day on which the letter, envelope or wrapper containing the said notice or communication is posted. In proving such service it shall be sufficient to prove that the cover containing such material was properly addressed and put into the post box or delivered to the postal authorities for onward transmission. III. PRESIDENT 19. The President shall exercise such powers for the 9 conduct of the business of the Society as may be vested in him by the Society. In addition, the President shall have powers to :- i) review periodically the work and progress of the Society, ii) appoint Committees or Commissions to enquire into and report on the affairs of the Society, and pass such orders thereon as he considers proper. Delegation of Powers 20. The President may, in writing, delegate such of his powers as he may consider necessary to the Vlce- President/the Director-General, the Secretary, the Directors of the Institutes, or to any other officer of the Council. IV. VICE-PRESIDENT Powers and functions 21. Besides the powers hereinafter enumerated in these Rules, the Vice-President shall exercise those powers which may specifically be delegated to him by the President. V. DIRECTOR-GENERAL Powers and functions 22. (a) Subject to any order that may be passed by the Government of India, the President, the Vice-President and decisions of the Governing Body, the Director-General as the Principal Executive Officer of the Society shall be responsible for :- i) the proper administration of the affairs and funds of the Society, ii) prescribing the duties of all employees of the Council, iii) exercising supervision and disciplinary control over the work and conduct of all employees of the Council, iv) co-ordinating and exercising general supervision over all research activities in agriculture and animal husbandry and other activities of the Council, and v) advising the Government of India, State Governments and the Administrations of the Union Territories on all matters connected with agriculture and animal husbandry referred to him. (b) Subject to these Rules and Bye-laws, the 10 (c) Director-General shall, in respect of matters under his charge, have the same powers as a Secretary to the Government of India. The Director-General may, in writing, delegate such of his powers as he may consider necessary to any officer of the Council. Powers Functions Constitution VI. SECRETARY 23. (a) The Secretary shall exercise all administrative and financial powers as have been conferred on him under these Rules and such of the powers as may be delegated to him from time to time. (b) The Secretary, shall or any member of the Governing Body, if so authorised by a resolution passed in that behalf by the Governing Body may execute all contracts, deeds and other instruments on behalf of the Society or the Governing Body.