 spelta Europe Higher protein content, more non-essential amino acids and less lysine Sweet potato Ipomoea batatas Americas High protein content (4–27%), beta-carotene and anthocyanin Teff Eragrostis tef Somali Peninsula Gluten-free, rich in protein, dietary fiber, polyphenols and minerals Triticale xTriticosecale Europe Higher protein content and nutritive values than in wheat Tritordeum Tritordeum martinii Europe High total phenol, antioxidants, dietary fibres, and total free amino acids White lupin Lupinus albus Mediteranean basin Fair protein, fatty acid, and fibre content, as well as oligosaccharides, antioxidants and non-starch carbohydrates Grains of some alternate crops Pearl millet Amaranth Buckwheat Foxtail millet Quinoa Indian Farming 63 June 2023 foods, viz. coconut, banana, guava, papaya, etc. Fruits and vegetables contain several bioactive compounds or phytochemicals (ascorbic acid, carotenoids, tocopherols, and phenolic compounds) enabling them to act in our body as antioxidant, anti-allergenic, anti-carcinogenic, anti-inflammatory, etc. Under the instances of lower production of antioxidants, the human body becomes more dependent on food sources for antioxidants. For these conditions, nutraceutical rich vegetable crops like red and black carrot, beet root, pumpkin, tomato etc. are more beneficial for health. Green leafy vegetables are a rich source of calcium, iron, alpha-carotene, ascorbic acid, riboflavin, thiamin, niacin, and folic acid. The root and tuber vegetable crops like sweet potato, taro, elephant foot yam, yam bean, etc. are rich in carbohydrates and energy. Cooked yams have about 2% protein, cassava and sweet potato provide ascorbic acid, whereas, cereal-based foods have none. Sweet potato also contains important amino acids while rice is deficient in lysine. Roots and green tops of sweet potato (orange and yellow-fleshed type) are rich in vitamin A. Besides, sweet potato is rich in anti-oxidant and nutrients (β-carotene, ascorbic acid, and tocopherol) which can prevent coronary disorder and cancer. Peas and beans are known for the richness of proteins. Chilli, brinjal, tomato, okra, cowpea, etc. not only add diversity to the diet but also provide a lot of vitamins, minerals, and fiber-rich food. The nutritional benefits of dietary fiber are well established for reducing the risk of cancer and for lowering blood cholesterol. Cruciferous vegetables are enriched with glucosinolate components which inactivate the carcinogens by reducing their reactivity with endogenous ligands and thereby facilitating their elimination from the body. Natural Table 2. List of underutilized fruits which can be used as a potential source of food system Scientific name Family Distribution Economic utility Actinidia strigosa Actinidaceae Sikkim Eaten fresh A.