 Regarding the drying process, onion slices were subjected to three different temperatures: 50째C, 55째C, and 60째C in a cabinet dryer. Among these, 60째C was identified as the most suitable temperature for dehydrating onion slices. This temperature retained comparatively less moisture in the product, preserved higher levels of nutritional quality, and required less time for bulk drying of the product. Packaging and storage The storage of dehydrated onion slices 200-gauge high-density polyethylene (HDPE) pouches was found to be good as it retains better retention of pungency, ascorbic acid, antioxidant activity, and rehydration ratio, sensory characteristics with low moisture, sugars, and non-enzymatic browning during the storage up to three months compared to 200 g LDPE (low-density polyethylene) pouches. However, the sample stored at low temperature retained a high content of antioxidant activity, total phenols, pungency, and ascorbic acid with better sensory characteristics in dehydrated onion slices as compared to ambient temperature during storage. Advantages of dehydration y Increase in concentration of nutrients due to loss of moisture. y Protein, fat, and carbohydrate is present in larger amounts per unit mass of dried food. Indian Horticulture 38 y It improves quality in terms of colour, flavour, and texture. y Reduction of packaging and distribution costs. y It also retains nutrients longer duration during storage. y Less affected by pests and diseases due to low moisture content. Limitations of dehydration y Loss of vitamin content, water-soluble vitamins can be partially oxidized during blanching and enzyme inactivation. y Ascorbic acid, thiamine, and carotene are damaged by oxidative processes. y Prolonged exposure to high temperature leads to non- enzymatic browning. CONCLUSION Pusa Shobha is a recently developed onion variety specifically designed for dehydration. This variety boasts white-coloured flesh that exhibits significantly reduced Procedure of dehydration browning during the dehydration process compared to other onion varieties. Pusa Shobha outshines its counterparts with higher TSS, dry matter content, and pungency levels. Dehydration is widely recognized as one of the most effective methods for preserving onions while simultaneously minimizing waste caused by sprouting, pests, and diseases during storage. Additionally, it contributes to stabilizing market prices, particularly during the dearth period. These attributes make Pusa Shobha a valuable addition to onion cultivation, especially for those seeking to enhance preservation and promote market stability. For further information, please contact: 1Division of Food Science and Postharvest Technology, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110012. 2Division of Vegetable Science, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110012. *Corresponding author: vinodbr0026@gmail.