 Digital tools and technologies e.g., remote sensing, automation, irrigation devices, Information Communication Technologies (ICTs) have been proving promising to farmers in different ways from production to marketing. The ICT has not only made it easy to deliver the farm advisories to millions of the farmers but escalated the quality of the extension system with complimentary effects. ICT initiatives such as web-based portals (e.g., AGRISNET, DACNET, AGMARKNET), kiosks (e.g., VKC, eChoupal), tele centers (ISRO VRC), call-based (Kisan Call Centers, IKSL), mobile applications (Pusa Krishi app, mKrishi, mKisan), video based (Digital Green initiative), etc. have been acknowledged globally for their access and reach Mass media and ICT tools help to reach out the farmers at remotest corners of the country in cost-effective and timely manner. Some of the pathbreaking ICT initiatives are discussion worthy. 5.10.1. mKisan The mKisan Farmers’ portal was developed in 2012 by the Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. The information about seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, farm machinery, weather, market price of farm produce, package of practices, programmes and schemes, insurance, storage, credit, minimum support price are provided in local language. SMS Portal was inaugurated by the Hon’ble President of India on July 16, 2013 and since its inception nearly 327 crore messages through more than 1044 crore SMSs have been sent to farmers in the country. More than 90 lakh farmers are being provided advisory by the KVKs. These messages are specific to farmers’ needs & relevance at a particular point of time and generate heavy inflow of calls in the Kisan Call Centres where people call up to get supplementary information. This portal has enabled Centre and State Departments of agriculture & allied sectors, SAUs, KVKs, Agro-met Forecasts Units, ICAR Institutes,) to provide information/services/advisories to farmers in their language. 5.10.2. DD Kisan and Community Radio A dedicated television channel on agriculture DD Kisan was launched in 2015 to supplement and compliment technology dissemination through need based agricultural programmes. Government of India approved a policy to grant licenses for community radio stations (CRS) in December 2002. The programmes are produced by the local people, in their local dialect. Educational institutions, KVKs/SAUs/ICAR Institutes and NGOs/ Community Based Organizations (CBOs) are establishing the CRS. SAUs and KVKs have Achievements in Agricultural Extension in Independent India 349 also established CRS. It benefits farmers within the radius of broadcast of CRS. 5.10.3. Kisan Sarathi The Kisan Sarathi platform was launched on 16 July, 2021 jointly by the Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare and the Union Minister of Electronics & Information Technology on the occasion of 93rd foundation day of ICAR.