 Stagnancy in productivity and shortage of agricultural labour are two major bottlenecks of Indian agriculture. Several studies have suggested a direct correlation between farm mechanization and crop productivity. The increasing trend of farm mechanization, coupled with the implementation of sustainable agricultural practices, is crucial for An alumnus and Director, IIT Kharagpur, Prof. Tewari’s core research areas are —Tractor system design, Ergonomics and industrial safety, Design of agricultural machines, Precision agriculture and Machinery system management. 79 Contemporary Agricultural Research ensuring long-term food security and sustainable use of natural resources. Farm mechanization is needed to increase land productivity, maximize farmers’ income, and precisely utilize input resources and value-addition of food for storage. It saves on inputs like seeds and fertilizers by 15-20 per cent, labour requirement and operational time by 20-30 per cent, and increases cropping intensity by 5-20 per cent and crop productivity by 10-15 per cent. At present, Indian farmers are adopting farm mechanization rapidly. Farm power availability has grown from 1.1 kW/ha in 1995-96 to 2 kW/ha in 2015-16 and is estimated to reach 4 kW/ha by 2030- 31. Simultaneously, the food grain yield has also increased from 1.4 tonnes/ha in 1995-96 to 2.4 tonnes/ha in 2015-16 and is further estimated to reach 4.2 tonnes/ ha by 2030-31. It is estimated that the percentage of farm workers to the total workers in India will reduce to 49.9 per cent in 2033 and 25.7 per cent in 2050 from 54.6 per cent in 2011. Therefore, there is a need to focus on ‘Precision Agriculture’ to maintain crop productivity. Precision agriculture is a farming management concept that utilizes various technologies to enhance the decision-making process in agriculture to increase productivity by improving farm input utilization efficiency. Some of the key technologies used in precision agriculture include geographic information systems (GIS), global positioning systems (GPS), remote sensing, variable rate application, artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning, and deep learning. These technologies enable collecting, processing, and analyzing large amounts of data related to soil, crop and climate conditions, which can be used to make informed decisions about planting, fertilizing, and harvesting crops. Some of the advanced technologies developed at IIT Kharagpur are tractor- mounted variable rate fertilizer applicator, variable rate herbicides applicator, sugarcane bud planting technology with automatic fungicide applicator, and the ultrasonic sprayer-based orchard sprayer. In addition, the integration of emerging technologies such as drones, robotics, the Internet of Things, automation, and artificial intelligence is revolutionizing crop input management and leading to increased efficiency and sustainability in agriculture.