 Of these, 1100 were randomly selected for an extended survey with greater detail on socioeconomic status, and this random subset constitutes the end- line in-person sample. At midline, 1525 households reported positive pulse area, and this non-random subset constitutes the phone sample. Notably, 711 households were included in both samples. Appendix A provides a full breakdown of sampling assignment and response rates by survey mode. We report results on household pulse production from first-year endline surveys conducted post-harvest in May–June 2018. We analyze production of the four most common varieties of pulses—pigeon peas (arhar), grown by 660 households; red lentils (masoor), grown by 854 households; green peas (mattar), grown by 398 households; and fava beans (bakla), grown by 390 households. Among these, pigeon peas and 3 https://www.3ieimpact.org/evidence-hub/publications/systematic- reviews 4 https://www.cochranelibrary.com/cdsr/reviews Journal of Development Economics 166 (2024) 103199 3 E. Anderson et al. red lentils were explicitly targeted by extension efforts in the year of study. Fewer than 100 households reported growing any other variety. Endline data was collected by parallel in-person and phone surveys that asked nearly identical questions about household production by pulse variety conditional on having positive area planted at midline. The two data collection exercises were motivated by a desire to op- timize for different research objectives. The phone survey allowed a larger sample size with the hope of generating more power for the primary outcome of pulse production. The in-person survey contained more modules, allowing detailed exploration of secondary outcomes. In-person surveying was part of a long-term impact evaluation by re- searchers at the University of California, Davis. Researchers attempted to reach all 1100 extended midline survey respondents. 1055 house- holds answered the survey, corresponding to an in-person attrition rate of 4.1%. Those that had reported positive area devoted to pulses at midline were asked about their production by variety at endline, and in-person surveys included a number of other questions on agricultural production and food consumption. Full evaluation results from the in-person survey are reported by Lybbert et al. (2023). Phone surveying was used for a short-term cost-effectiveness anal- ysis by researchers at IDinsight. Researchers attempted to reach all 1525 midline households that had reported positive area devoted to pulses. 1266 responded corresponding to an attrition rate of 17.0% by phone. In our study sample, phone ownership is nearly universal so attrition signals either not answering the call or declining to participate. Phone respondents were asked only about pulses production due to time constraints imposed by the survey format. Full evaluation results from the phone survey are reported by Anderson et al. (2022).