 These technologies have brought significant genetic improvements and productivity of the animals. However, the application of these technologies in indigenous dairy cows has been relatively slow. 6.1. Artificial Insemination (AI) Tremendous progress has been achieved in semen cryopreservation and artificial insemination (AI) techniques that enable a single bull to be used simultaneously in several countries for up to 100,000 inseminations per year. The AI programme was first started in India at the Palace Dairy Farm, Mysore in the year 1939. In 1942, a Centre to study problems associated with AI was started at IVRI, Izatnagar and later on 4 regional stations were started at Bangalore, Kolkata, Patna and Montgomery (now in Pakistan). AI in buffalo gained importance in later years and the first buffalo calf was born through AI in 1943 at Allahabad Agricultural Institute, Allahabad. Presently, about 30% of the total breedable bovines are covered under the AI program. AI is currently used in breeding programs of ICAR, central and state govt farms and schemes of government. AI with frozen semen has also been standardized in Goat but in sheep it is practiced with refrigerated semen. In Pigs, AI with chilled semen is being practiced. Overall conception rate of AI is about 30-35%, which necessitates more intensified R&D efforts for improving the AI technology. Indian Agriculture after Independence 156 6.2. Multiple Ovulation and Embryo Transfer (MOET) In this technique, genetic contributions of both the male and female are utilized simultaneously. The first embryo transfer calf in ICAR system was born in 1987 at ICAR- NDRI Karnal. ICAR-CIRC, Meerut, in a pilot study on MOET in cattle, initiated the embryo transfer technology at Military dairy farm, Meerut for multiplication of Sahiwal cattle. ICAR-NDRI Karnal and CIRC Meerut are working on augmenting production of indigenous livestock. 6.3. Ovum Pick-up and in-vitro Fertilization (OPU-IVF) Technology A technique for in-vitro embryo production (IVEP) has been developed for utilization of the indigenous cow oocyte / gamete pool for enhancing the maternal contribution to genetic improvement. Ovum Pick-Up (OPU) is the only means for collecting oocytes from live animals of known pedigree; further this technique also enables repeated collection of oocytes from live animals on a weekly or biweekly basis over a long period of time. When using in-vitro procedures, average rate of blastocyst formation is around 30-40% and calf production is 10-15%. 6.4. Semen sexing A total of 12 semen stations in different states viz. Gujarat, Haryana, Kerala, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh have been established. The use of sex-sorted semen will not only enhance milk production but also crucial in limiting population of male cattle/ stray cattle. At parallel, ABS Technology (website genusabsindia.