 Little contribution in decision making process, either inside home or on the field made them unrecognizable. Few women own agricultural productive resources such as land, animals and machinery but their percentage is always less. Due to financial limitations, poor women farmers are unable to purchase innovative, climate resilient technology to improve productivity. Women farmers in agriculture and allied sector often suffer from high illiteracy rate. Women earn fewer wages, especially in joint, informal and private sector. Lack of market intelligence, weak bargaining power with the buyers and inadequate information put women farmers under miserable situation. The gender inequality in rural India further aggravates the pathetic conditions of women. All these issues in the way of women empowerment should be checked step by step with sustainable solution approach. Empowering the powerhouse (women) of rural India Empowering rural women with agricultural skills and resources will considerably augment their productivity, while ultimately contributing to economic growth and income generation. Providing rural women with the knowledge to produce better quality crops, with higher yields and judicious use of precious resources will also help them to become more empowered, enabling them to uplift their socio-economic status, community growth and feeding growing population. Capacity building for improving entrepreneurial skills and training on practical use of agricultural technology may preservation, processing, marketing and provide a vital link between producers and consumers. They are also actively involved in the fish auction, buying fish and later take it to the market for sale. Role in food and livelihood security Globally, there is pragmatic evidence that women have a decisive position in ensuring food security, livelihood security and preserving local agro-biodiversity. Rural women are responsible for the integrated management and use of diverse natural resources to meet the daily household needs. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in his message during celebration of International Day of Rural Women said that ‘rural women are farmers and farm workers, horticulturists and market sellers, entrepreneurs and community leaders. Rural women are the backbone of sustainable livelihoods and provide food security for their families and communities.’ Livestock is the primary livelihood activity used to meet household food needs as well as supplement farm incomes. Studies have revealed rural women earn extra income from the sale of milk and animals and utilize the money for household works. The rural women rear livestock as an insurance against economic uncertainty. There is practice of rearing small ruminants by rural women and selling them during festive season to earn money. Every woman in the family chooses her goat/ sheep and nurtures them till the market age.