 Paddy straw is also stored by special method to be used as fodder for animals.  CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS Cultivation practices for transplanted paddy are as follows: Tillage and intercultural practices Land preparation First ploughing is done in dry field when soil is moist or when 2-3 inches water is standing in the field. Second ploughing is done after 3-4 days of first ploughing, so that all weeds and crop residues are buried in the soil. After ploughing, leveling is done with the help of moi. Third ploughing (preparation of kado) is done when weeds and crop residues are decomposed. It takes 3-4 days, when kado (third ploughing) is done. After ploughing moi is used for leveling. If field is uneven and there are heaps of soils at some places, the soil is scraped with the help of kado kural and leveling is done. Transplanting Paddy seedlings of handful bundles are thrown/distributed in the field and then transplanted. At the time of transplanting either the field is kept dry or filled with 1-inch height of water. When the roots of paddy seedlings are set in the soil, the field is submerged with 3 inches water. Weeding Nikoni (weeding) is done after 1 month of transplanting. All other operations in transplanting paddy are done in the same manner as in the case of dry seeded paddy. Pest and disease management Branches of sinduar plant are buried in the field when the paddy is attacked by diseases. Paddy crop is protected from insects by spreading tender leaves of podsi plant @ 50-60 kg/ha. Branches of podsi plant are also buried in the soil, as well as of rata plant. Flowers or gujari, neem and karanj are spread in the field to protect paddy from diseases. About 40-60 kg/ha of flowers are applied in the field. Moi made of bahera tree wood is used for operation at the time of kadan (ploughing in the standing paddy). This protects the crop from insects. There are other methods also to protect paddy crop from insect and diseases e.g. wood logs are burnt on the bunds of the field and the insects get away due to fire. Insects also get away by drum sound. This method is adopted to save the crop from tiddi insects Similarly, fresh cowdung is mixed with soil and sprayed to control diseases in paddy.  CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS Pests and diseases are controlled by changing water in the paddy fields. Disease and insect preventive trees like neem, karanj, ashan, arjun, jamun, palash, sinduar, etc are planted on the bunds to protect the paddy crop from pests. Fur of konda is picked and applied in the land. This controls insects and pests in paddy crop. About 20_30 kg/ha of kanchi bans pieces are broadcast in standing water with cowdung. Water is kept standing for 3_4 days. This controls white (safed rog) disease in paddy which is caused by rice case worm. Calendar of agricultural operations For ploughing and application of cow dung manure, 15th January and first day of Magh month are considered good. Second ploughing is considered better in February_March.