 Uncontrolled irrigation, intercropping, tree wounding, and improper fertilizer application all contribute to mango tree wilt.The infection of C. fimbriata in the main trunk of trees causes sudden wilt symptoms but infection of either of the pathogens in the roots causes a decline. The internal symptoms develop as dark staining of infected wood followed by exudation of gum from the trunk and branches (Fig. 1a-e). Management yy Avoid damage to the roots, minimum tillage should be adopted and deep ploughing should completely be avoided in mango orchards. Intercrops should always be grown beyond the canopy area, especially if they are grown in young orchards. yy Wilt affected and nearby trees should be treated with thiophanate methyl 70WP @ 50-150 g or hexaconozole 5 SC @ 50-150 ml per tree according to the age of the trees as a soil drench. yy Infected or wilted branches should be cut and cut ends should be pasted with Bordo Paste (1:1:10) or 5.0% solution of copper oxychloride. yy The aerial portion of trees should be sprayed with tetraconazole 3.8 EW propiconazole 25EC @ 0.1% at the appearance of the first symptom. yy If an infestation of Scolytid beetles is observed in an orchard, it should be managed by spray of Malathion 50 EC @ 0.2 to 0.3% on the trunk at a 15 day interval. yy Irrigation must be done by a drip system or by using channels to avoid disease dispersal through water from infected trees to healthy trees. Dieback and twig drying Dieback or drying of the plant from the top downwards or random drying of twigs is caused by a wound parasite, Lasiodiplodia theobromae. High summer temperatures predispose the trees to infection during the rainy season and symptoms appear after the rainy season. Relative humidity of more than 80%, temperatures ranging from 26 to 32°C, and rain all contribute to disease development. The disease is characterized by dying back of twigs from top downwards, followed by complete defoliation (Fig. 2a). External evidence of a disease is discoloration or darkening of the bark on young green twigs. The leaves lose their healthy green colour and gradually turn brown. Cracks may appear on branches, which exude gum before they die. Twig drying takes place randomly on a part or on the whole tree (Fig. 2b). Management Pruning of the diseased twigs 5-10 cm below the infection site followed by a spray of Bordeaux mixture (5:5:50) or copper oxychloride (0.3%) has been effective in managing the disease. However, extra care of trees for water and nutrition is necessary for better recovery. Blossom blight Blossom blight is a disease that affects plants all over the world and is caused by the fungi Alternaria alternata and Colletotriculum gloeosporioides. Blighted panicles may not bear fruit and, thus, the disease is of great economic significance. The symptoms appear during panicle development and flowering.