 This Handbook will provide information of available useful technologies to educate on how to reduce or judiciously use chemical pesticides, safeguard ourselves from chronic poisoning, save the National environment while also reducing input costs and raise farmers’ income. This compilation will be useful to teachers, students, trainers, line-department personnel and policy makers. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-x + 768 • Price : ` 1500 • Postage : ` 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-179-6 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 13 November 2023 Diversification of rice-based cropping system with high-value crops for increased productivity and profitability Priyanka Saha1*, Jitendra Singh Bohra2 and Tejram Banjara3 1ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012 2Institute of Agricultural Sciences, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 005 3Government H.S. School, Bhatapara, Chattisgarh As the world's population grows, so does the demand for food, putting pressure on the existing farming system to produce more. Crop diversification is an approach of fulfilling rising food demand by increasing the number of crops or substituting one or more crop with other in a cropping system. Crop diversification is intended to provide a wider choice in the crop production in a given area so as to expand production related activities on various crops while also minimizing risk. Due to prolonged adoption of existing rice-wheat cropping system, soil fertility and soil health is deteriorating which ultimately is affecting the sustainable food grain production. To meet the ever-increasing population's demand for cereal, pulses, and oilseeds, it was found that including oilseeds and pulses in a rice-based cropping sequence was more beneficial than cereal alone. Crop diversification can thus help to improve livelihoods, environmental stability, and financial prosperity. Keywords: Crop diversification, Cropping system, Energetics, Productivity, Profitability, Rice-wheat I N India, the rice-wheat is the most predominant cropping system. Despite the system’s long-term stability, yield stagnation has been documented. The monotony of the system, as well as the exhaustive nature of the cereal—cereal crop sequence, are the main causes of production stagnation. Continuous rice cultivation especially under poor soil and crop management methods has resulted in soil fertility loss, multiple nutrient deficiency. Factor productivity also suffers due to declining soil quality.