8%) which are dominating the world potato markets. Potato is well suited to cold climate. It is widely cultivated in temperate, subtropical, and cool tropical regions, as monocrop, in crop rotation or multiple cropping systems. In subtropical climate, potato is well adjusted in a range of cropping systems. In temperate zones, cold temperatures confine potato production to one growing season per year as a monoculture. In northern Europe and North America, potato production is generally carried out with intensive farming practices such as high rates of fertilization, pesticide use, and necessary irrigation. In some areas of the Peruvian highlands, the temperature during February drop down to –30°C, causing significant yield losses while in some regions, drought hampers potato yield. The past projections and historical trends estimated that growth rates in potato production in developing countries for the period 1993–2020 are between O v e r v i e w O v e r v i e w O v e r v i e w O v e r v i e w O v e r v i e w V K Dua, Paresh Chaukhande, Jagdev Sharma and Pooja Mankar Impact of climate change on potato cultivation: A global perspective Potato is the third most important food crop in terms of production, and it has invaluable significance for the diets and livelihoods of millions of people worldwide. Food and agriculture organization (FAO) has declared potato as a wholesome food. International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) reported that major food source in the world (wheat, rice, corn, and potatoes) will steadily decrease up to 2050. Climate change has effected potato production globally. Future potato yields are likely to be affected by anthropogenic climate change as well as direct effects of emissions such as carbon dioxide (CO2) fertilization. Hence, it becomes imperative to study climate change impacts on potato with adaptive strategies and intervention to curtail impact for next generations as well as to feed a burgeoning world population. 2.02–2.71%. The potato production will be directly affected by climate change, while there would be several indirect effects on various facets of supply, storage, utilization, and acreage of the crop in future climate scenarios. Impact of climate change on potato Potato crop cycle is sensitive to changes in temperature and humidity, which ultimately have direct and indirect effects on its productivity. The first notable expression of climate change relates to higher temperatures. Apart from temperature, disease, and pest build-up, under elevated temperature and CO2 can significantly affect potato production globally. Rise in temperature Increase in temperature has most likely adverse effects on potato yield as it affects the growth and development of potato. For several countries (especially in tropics and subtropics) up to 20–30% yield declines are expected. The temperature during night plays a crucial influence on starch deposition in potato tubers.