 • Set up the fishmeal traps impregnated with insecticide @12/ha till the crop is 30 days old. Biorational methods • Apply balanced fertilizers having adequate NPK to promote better plant growth, that results in reduced damage by shoot fly and stem borers. Chemical methods • Treat the seeds with thiamethoxam 30 FS @10 ml/kg of seeds to reduce the damage by shoot fly and to some extent stem borer and sucking pests. • When the shoot fly damage reaches 5–10% of the plants with dead hearts, the crop may be sprayed with cypermethrin 10 EC (750 ml/ha) or quinalphos 25 EC (400 g a.i./ha) or carbofuran granules (5–7 granules/plant) may be applied in the leaf whorls. • For stem borers, carbofuran 3 G granules may be applied in the whorls @8–12 kg a.i/ha. • For earhead bugs (1–2 bugs/panicle) and head caterpillars (2–3 larvae/panicle), the crop may be sprayed at the completion of flowering and at the milk stage with cypermethrin 25 EC @0.5 ml/litre. • For managing sucking pests like shoot bug, aphids, apply dimethoate 0.03% and neem seed kernal suspension 0.04%+soap. SUMMARY The available evidence suggests that pearl millet and finger millet are relatively less affected by insect pests compared to other millets and sorghum. There is a need to generate data on yield loss due to key pests of millet crops and determine economic injury levels, the effectiveness of natural enemies and their use in existing ecosystems. There is a need to standardize screening techniques for shoot flies and borers. The traits responsible for resistance must be incorporated into agronomically suitable cultivars. New pests and changes in the status of minor or occasional pests should be closely watched. Looking to the status of the pests in changing climate, an integrated approach for management of millet pests is the need of the hour. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: shyam@millets.res.in Indian Farming 67 January 2023 Disease management for improved millet production I K Das*, K B Palanna and G Rajesh ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Millets are a group of cereal grains used for human and animal consumption. Many diseases come in the way of high productivity of millets. There are more than a dozen major diseases that considerably affect cultivation of various millets like sorghum, pearl millet, and small millets (finger, foxtail, kodo, proso, little, barnyard and browntop millets). Millets being grown under low input agricultural conditions, management of disease by chemical is not recommended and mostly preventive measures are followed. The article describes major diseases of millets and various cost effective and economic ways of their management for higher productivity. Keywords: Disease, Host resistance, Management, Millets C ROP damage due to diseases is one of the major causes of concerns for improvement of millets production and productivity with intensive cultivation.