in Project Director (DKMA) : SK Singh and Incharge (EEU) Editor : Ravindra Verma Incharge, Production Unit : Punit Bhasin ISO 9001:2015 Organization Price : Single Copy `30, US $25 Special issue `100 Annual Subscription 1 Year `150, US $30 3 Years `400, US $85 Indian Horticulture 2 Guest Editorial Mango: Storehouse of nutrition M ango is one of the most popular fruits in the tropics and subtropics of the world. The mango tree is not only revered as a sacred gift from nature, but it is also prized for its immense economic potential. It is primarily used as a source of food, fuel, and fodder in traditional Asian civilizations, and is a source of income for millions of people around the world. It is also a rich source of nutrients and several rare bioactive compound. Mango was previously thought to be primarily an Asian economic crop, but it is now becoming a significant crop in other parts of the world. Mexico is the world's leading mango exporter, accounting for roughly 17% of the country's total output. For millions of people living in subtropical, semi-arid, and tropical regions around the world, mango is a source of vitamin A. Mango fruit is high in carbohydrates, minerals, dietary fibre (pectin), vitamin C, and vitamin A. Mangiferin and lupeol, natural bioactive chemicals found in mango, have been shown to have a variety of health-promoting properties, including antitumor activity. India is renowned around the world for its diverse collection of mango types, each with its own distinct flavour, texture, and aroma. Initially, the US and European markets marketed only red-coloured mango types, but in recent years, yellow-green cultivars have made their way into these markets as well. Majority of the crop is consumed as fresh mangoes, but hundreds of processed goods derived from the fruit are also commercially manufactured and sold. Mango pulp has only a little amount of lipids and can therefore be termed fat-free. A significant concentration of lipids may be found in seeds, and their fatty acid content is comparable to that of cocoa butter. In addition to being a one-of-a-kind crop, mangoes are used for processing at both the raw and mature crop stages, making them a valuable commodity. Early fruit is used to produce chutneys, curries, cool drinks, pickles, and other condiments, as well as pickles and pickle vinegar. Ripe fruits are used to make a variety of products, including puree, squash, nectar, beverages, mango leather, fruit bars, canned and frozen mango slices, and desserts. Mango pulp and pickles are two of India's most important export products. The consumption of mangoes, as well as the area under mango production, is steadily expanding since the fruit is recognised as a super fruit. However, the King of Fruits is also confronted with a number of obstacles as a result of the perpetually changing climate and the emergence of biotic pressures in a variety of agro-ecological environments.