 Introduction site should receive water which must be free from silt. • Besides the water quality, the water flow rate in the trout ponds or raceways is also important. A minimum water flow of about 2- 3 litres per second (lps) is required. • Availability of adequate and timely supply of quality trout fish seed is important limiting factor coming in its success. • While cultivating the trout fish, it is required to be given protein rich feed in the raceways. Trout farming has proved to be a money spinner and boon for small farmers in the hilly regions of the country. For sustainable development of rainbow trout farming in the country, constant support and cohesion of policy makers, research organizations and concerned line departments is equally important. There is also a need to include more components in the existing scheme of the Government of India. The distant hilly district of Mandi in the state of Himachal Pradesh is endowed with rich cold water Indian Farming November 2020 21 of trout has helped the fish to become established in most of the cold water aquatic bodies of the country. Taking support of the Department of Fisheries, Jaswal converted the rectangular carp fish pond into a raceway pond of 8 × 2 × 1.5 m size and started cultivating rainbow trout in 2001. Besides the one-time cost spent on construction of raceway, major expenses were incurred on procuring 2,000 rainbow trout seeds and protein rich feed costing ` 45/kg. He could harvest a crop of about 250-300 kg of rainbow trout in 13 months giving him approximately an income of ` 55,000. Overwhelmed with this success and also subsequently the support received under various Government of India programmes viz. Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana and the Blue revolution scheme, the farmer constructed thirteen cemented raceways of varying size in the next few years. At present, the farmer can produce about nine tonnes of rainbow trout from his farm comprising of 13 raceways constructed in an area of about 800 sq meter within 14-15 months. The farm gate price of the fish is presently more than ` 500/kg. To sum up, small farmers in upper hilly region can dream of earning a substantial amount of money from small pieces of land provided they utilize the water resources judiciously and by selecting proper economic activity like that of trout farming. In trout farming, the farmers from States and UT like Jammu & Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh have done much better than most of their counterparts. Considering the larger picture, trout cultivation in the hilly regions of the country right from Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and also other Himalayan States can be a game changer for especially the poor small and marginal farmers. This is true especially for those who are having a good source of perennial water supply in their farm land from the natural nallahs by constructing water channels.