 The test results clearly indicated no adverse effect on (i) pre-terminal deaths, (ii) no significant effects on body weight gain; (iii) normal clinical and behavioural signs, and (iv) no gross necropsy changes in organs collected. Some of the tobacco varieties have the seed yield potential of 1,200 kg. The total oil output @ 35% is 420 kg/ha. The income that can be realized was ` 21,000 which is an additional income apart from leaf, i.e. ` 6,5000/ ha. Tobacco stalks biochar : a potential soil amendment: Tobacco Stalks Biochar (TS Biochar) is a value addition to the tobacco stalks biomass which is otherwise discarded as a solid waste or burned off in heaps. The optimum conditions for preparing the tobacco stem biochar were 5000C for 90 min. Total organic carbon and N content of the biochar was around 800 g/kg and 12.3 g/kg, respectively and the CEC is 30 C mol (p+)/kg. The per cent inhibition of leaching of applied ammonium and potassium by tobacco stalk biochar in light textured soil was 28.1 and 25.3%, respectively. Experimental results under field conditions revealed that application of TS Biochar (1 tonne/ha) coupled with 100% RDF not only improved tobacco productivity but also caused a significant enhancement in crop nutrient uptake and use efficiency of applied nutrients over 100% RDF alone. Women-friendly semi-automatic fish cleaning- cum-dressing system: Fish cleaning-cum-dressing station was developed which can be operated either manually by foot or mechanically by electricity. It consists of (i) dressing table (100 mm × 48 mm × 120 mm) (ii) round cutter, (iii) water spraying system, (iv) motor 1/10 hp (9,400 rpm) and PVC pulley (dia 200 mm), (v) foot rotor and pulley (dia 530 mm), (vi) liquid waste disposal and filtration system, (vii) solid- waste disposal system. The machine is useful for steak cutting in fish retail shops and processing plants. The capacity of the machine is 2–3 kg fish (carps)/min. Mechanical dried chillies compaction-cum- bagging machine: Good packaging of chilli facilitates convenience in transportation and storage and also attracts consumer to pay more. The packaging reduces the marketing cost and protects the quality. Limitations of conventional method are low productivity (3 persons can do only 8 bags/hr trampling and bagging of dried chillies), unhygienic, sometime water is sprinkled on top of chillies to reduce inflammation to feet and involvement of drudgery and pungency during trampling and packing. Hence, to reduce the drudgery involved in the bagging of the dried chilli operation, a mechanical dried chilli trampling-cum-bagging unit having capacity of 20-25 bags/ hr was developed. It saves about ` 11/bag. Turmeric value chain machinery Turmeric washer: Currently turmeric is harvested and boiled without washing. This practice reduces the efficiency of boiling operation and results in poor quality of turmeric. To overcome this issue a continuous type washer was developed.