 It can be controlled by spraying of Dithane M-45 @ 2 g/litre of water twice at 10 days interval. Fusarium wilt is a soil borne disease in which the young seedlings, cotyledons droop and wither. In older plant, leaves wilt suddenly and collar region become yellow or brown. The disease can be checked by drenching the soil and root zone of the crop by Captaf @ 2 g/litre of water. This should be repeated at 10 days interval. SUMMARY Pusa Raunak is an early improved variety of round melon for spring-summer season cultivation developed by IARI for National Capital Territory of Delhi. Apart from superior quality characters, it showed 64% higher yield over the National check variety Punjab Tinda. For further interaction, please write to: Amish K Sureja (Scientist), Division of Vegetable Science, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012. *Corresponding author's email: aksureja@gmail.com January–February 2022 29 Kapil Mohan Sharma*, C M Muralidharan and D A Baidiyavadra Technology T he commercial cultivation of date palm, Phoenix dactylifera L. is concentrated in the western border states of India where Kachchh district of Gujarat contributes the largest area and production but most of the cultivated area is still of seedling origin. The crop can be propagated through seeds, offshoots and tissue cultured plant. Being a dioecious and highly cross pollinated crop, great variability exist in colour, size, shape, taste of the fruits if propagated through seeds. Moreover, the seed never assure the true-to- type nature of mother palm and 50-60% turned to be male and it also leads to variability, hence not recommended for commercial plantation. Tissue culture plants are currently not very easily available in bulk in India; hence the best way to maintain and increase production of quality date palm is propagation through the offshoots. Offshoots are auxiliary buds developed between leaf base and the trunk during the juvenile phase of the palm. The number of offshoots developed per palm is dependent on the variety/clones which are limited to a short vegetative phase of the palms and in initial 10-15 years of age, the palm produces an average of 10-20 offshoots. The offshoot development process is very slow, which retard the fast multiplication process. Currently, no tool or technique is available to increase as well as speed up the production of offshoot and also to reduce time gap. Furthermore, the survival rate of the offshoots is very low (20-30%) under field conditions, and there are chances of enhancement and spread of pests and diseases. The preparation and removal of offshoot is a skilled and laborious work, and needs proper care. The propagation of the offshoot can be divided into two parts, first is the preparation of the offshoots by allowing them to root and second is the removal of the offshoots and transplanting them into the field. Each of these events are discussed in the later section.