 This analysis no longer conditions on positive area planted at mid- line because planting is an endogenous outcome of treatment. Produc- tion volume is given by survey response for households with positive area planted and assumed to be zero (though not explicitly asked) for households that previously reported zero area planted. 3. Distribution of self-reported outcomes In this section we analyze differences in self-reported production by survey mode. This analysis is informative for comparisons made across data sets generated using different methods, for example when making inferences about how outcomes evolve over time from different rounds of a panel survey. The distribution of responses by survey mode are presented in Fig. 1. Each panel plots the value at each decile for the four most common pulse varieties. The solid line represents in-person responses, and the dotted line represents phone responses. Means and standard deviations are also reported for each crop and survey mode. Data in Fig. 1 restrict to study participants that reported positive area planted at midline, and were therefore asked about production at endline. Nevertheless, some respondents indicate zero harvest pro- duction. This is because unfavorable weather conditions in the study year damaged pulse crops, especially pigeon peas. As a result, many households that planted pulses had abandoned cultivation by harvest time. Results reveal greater self-reported production over the phone than in person. On average, responses range from 14% smaller in person for fava beans up to 68% smaller for pigeon peas. The difference in means is statistically significant at the 1% level for pigeon peas and red lentils, the two crops targeted by the extension program. For all crops except fava beans, there is greater variance in responses over the phone as well. The pattern of greater production reported in phone surveys appears all along the distribution of responses. A larger fraction of respondents claim non-zero production for all crops, and a chi-squared test rejects equality between survey modes at the 1% level for all but fava bean. Moreover, self-reported production is higher at the median, 75th per- centile, and 90th percentile for all four crops. Differences in pigeon pea responses are significant at the 1% level at the median, 75th, and 90th percentiles. Red lentil differences are also significant at the 5% level at the median and 75th percentile, green pea differences are significant at the 10% level at the median, and fava bean differences are significant at the 10% level at the median and 75th percentile. Exact values and test statistics are reported in Appendix B. The consistency of these results indicates that the greater mean and variance of phone responses is not just driven by an exaggerated right tail. As a corollary, we would not be able to reconcile survey modes with a simple fix such as more aggressive winsorization of phone data. 3.1.