 Selection and peer-review under responsibility of the scientiﬁc committee of the 2nd International Con- ference on Recent Advances in Modelling and Simulations Techniques in Engineering and Science. 1. Introduction The demand for minerals has increased with the growing pop- ulation and the advancement of technology. Thus, mining becomes a necessity to satisfy the appetite of these excessive demands. Min- ing is destroying the landscape, ecosystem, and polluting rivers and lakes, because of this, mining is also known as a ‘necessary evil’. Mining for metals, and petroleum, are essential for the smooth operation of industries as well as the economic gain of the nation. Mining activities are helping in many ways for achiev- ing some UN sustainable development goals (SDGs) such as Goal- 1: No Poverty, Goal-2: -Zero hunger, Goal-9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure, Goal-11: Sustainable Cities and Communities, and Goal 12 Responsible Consumption and Production. But at the same time, mining activities are negatively impacting the environ- ment and public health which challenges Goal 3: Good health and well-being, Goal 6: Clean water and sanitation Goal 14: Life below water, and Goal 15: Life on land. Sustainable development provides an idea to fulﬁl the basic needs of the current generation without compromising the future generation. However, unsustainable, unstructured, and unscientiﬁc minings are impacting the environ- ment, biodiversity, and human health [1]. Chromium is one of the major elements used for different purposes in various industries such as steel manufacturing, chrome tanning, metal ceramics, dyes, wood preservatives, anti-rust agents, and chemical and pharma- ceutical industries [2]. Sukinda chromite mine is the world’s lar- gest chromite mine and the largest and major chromite mine in the country which produces 97% of India’s chromium [3,4]. India is the world’s 4th largest producer of chromium after South Africa, Turkey, and Kazakhstan. The exploitation of resources through mining results in environmental degradation, which is also the case for Sukinda. Damsal Canal, one of the tributaries of river Brah- mani receives potentially toxic elements (PTEs) contaminated min- ing efﬂuents, which is polluting the surface water, groundwater, and soil and ultimately impacting the local ecosystem and human health. Recent investigations have revealed pollution due to min- ing dust deposition on the roadside, mine, agricultural and forest sites around the mining region and about 1.4 lakh people residing around the area are directly or indirectly getting impacted by pol- lution [4]. Chromium is one of the important metal of the earth’s crust and is found in trace amounts in rocks and soils [5]. Major sources of geogenic chromium in the soil and water are ultramaﬁc rocks con- taining dunite, peridotite, olivine, olivine, enstatite, and chromite https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matpr.2023.05.015 2214-7853/ 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.