 Do you generally agree with the assessment and projections made by the reviewee in the supplementary material ? Please give your critical appraisal in consultation with Project Leader. Signature of the Reviewer Name Designation Date: PART V Recommendations of the Director (In case of employees of Institute) D.G., ICAR or D.D.G., ICAR (in the case of the employees of the Headquarters and/or the centrally administered programme) Signature. Name Designation k Date: PART-B IMPROVEMENTS IN THE CRITERIA AND METHODS OF FIVE- YEARLY ASSESSMENT FOR SCIENTISTS OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE (Effective for assessments/re-assessments for the period ending 31-12-1984 and onwards) 1. Every scientist should keep a personal file apart from the Research Project file. The personal file shall consist of parts (I), (II), (III). In part I of the personal file, the details of the scientific work assigned to the scientist and targets set for him will be furnished. In part II of the file scientific responsibilities of the concerned scientitts would be clearly shown in clear and precise terms. That file will show : (a) research work assigned to the scientist. The name of the projects, his specific contribution to the work of each project as an Asso- ciate or as a Project Leader, percentage of time devoted by him to each project. This will not include projects which are assign- ed to students. Only those projects where a scientist is doing research himself assisted by technical staff only and not by other scientists or students will be included, (b) teaching functions performed by the scientist will also be reflec- ted by the scientist in his personal file. The details in this regard will include the courses taught, the number of students in each course, number of PG students guided/taught, innovations made in teaching methods, time spent on teaching and its percentage of the total time of the scientist etc., (c) details of extension functions performed by the scientists and percentage of his time devoted to them, indicating clearly in quantitative terms the impact created through the extension activities, (d) in case a scientist is assigned non-scientific-work which should be only in exceptional circumstances and only for a short time, the details of such work and percentage of time devoted to such work may be indicated and (e) the personal file should carry the observations of the Head of Division and Director as given in RPFs. At the end of the year, the Head of the Division and Director or any other scientist designated by him for the purpose will evaluate the perfor- 68 ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE mance of the scientist with reference to the set targets and give his comments. A copy of the personal file will be enclosed with the Annual Assessment Report for evaluation of the performance.