 This hardness and tightness of cabbage leaves makes the cabbage ready for marketing before 10 days of the usual time. One or two sprays of the prepared mixture give the following advantages: (i) the cabbage can be harvested much earlier than the due time; (ii) it makes the cabbage greener in colour; (iii) cabbages does not get discoloured (yellowing or pale) easily on storage; and (iv) there is no pest attack. Shri Indramani Sahu, Jagannathpur, Raghunathpur, Jagatsinghpur (Orissa) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2897 Seed treatment by cactus milk 2898 Control of wilt in vegetable by using koduva bael 2899 Control of insect pests in vegetable crops Keywords: solar treatment, neem, cow urine, cabbage A solution is prepared by mixing 100 ml milk of cactus (Euphorbia neriifolia) and 1 litre water. This solution is mixed with seeds of cereals, legumes or cotton and is kept for drying in darkness for 8 hr. Due to these, the larvae of stem borer, termites and other pests could not damage the seeds. Also 1 litre latex of Euphorbia neriifolia diluted in 14 litres water can also be used to spray 1 acre field. Keywords: seed treatment, cactus milk, stem borer, termito About 10 kg stem of koduva bael (Strychnus axillaris) is taken and cut into small pieces and soaked in container with 50 litres water, for 7 days. Then 100 g tobacco leaves are taken and soaked in 20 litres water in a separate container overnight. Finally they are mixed together. It is sufficient for spraying 0.13 ha land. It is claimed that this is very effective for wilt disease in brinjal and also for all the types of crop pests affecting paddy, vegetables and other crops. The solution can also be applied as a soil drench or a foliar spray. Keywords: koduva bael, wilt, tobacco leaves, vegetable Two kg kanvali (Ipomoea hederifolia) tuber, 1 kg arali (Nerium oleander or N. indicum) seeds, 2 kg dhatura (Datura metel) seeds, 1 kg leaves Nicotiana tabacum and 500 g limestone powder are soaked in water and ground. The mixture is again soaked in cow urine for 10-15 days, and then it is filtered through a fine Shri Shaileshbhai Rameshbhai Bhatia, Shresh Primary School, village Zanzad, taluka Shinor, dist. Vadodara (Gujarat) Shri Bimal Gayen, Govindapur Shri V. Arasan alias Karuppiah, S/o Vellaichamy, Mammaniyour, Komberipatty, Ayyalur (via Vedasanthoor taluk), dist. Dindigul (Tamil Nadu) 624801 Content PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2900 Jackfruit leaf extract as herbicide in crops 2902 Control of various pests in cotton, pigeonpea and soybean cotton cloth. One litre of this filtrate is taken and diluted with the required quantity of water. This spray is effective in controlling insect pests in crops like moringa, tomato, chilli, brinjal and paddy.