 In order to prevent whitefly (Bemisia spp.), spray imidacloprid 17.8 SL @ 125 ml per hectare. Grow tolerant/resistant varieties of mung like MH 421, Pant Mung 3, PDM 139 (Samrat), PDM 11, MUM 2 etc. Leaf curl: The symptoms of leaf curling are visible first in third leaf after three to four weeks of sowing. These are characterized by enlargement of leaves followed by their crinkling. Later the leaves become thicker and leathery. Control measures: Treat the seeds with imidacloprid (17.8 SL) 3 ml/kg seed. Foliar spray of insecticide (dimethoate 30 EC @ 1.7 ml/ha) at 30 days after sowing. Rogue out the infected plants and field sanitation. Anthracnose: The fungus Colletotrichum spp. is the causal organism affecting aerial plant parts, however, the leaves and pods are more vulnerable. The characteristic symptoms of this disease are circular brown sunken spots with dark centers and bright red orange margins on leaves and pods. Infection just after germination causes seedling blight. Control measures: Seed treatment with carbendazim 50 WP @ 2 g/kg of seed helps in eliminating the seed borne infection. Spray of carbendazim @ 2 g/liter of water with first appearance of symptoms on the crop and repeat after 15 days (if necessary). Whitefly: Whitefly (Bemisia tabaci) nymphs and adults suck sap from leaves and make the plants very weak. Whitefly is a vector of number of viral diseases especially mungbean yellow mosaic virus (MYMV). Showing downward cupping of the leaves giving a sickly look and the plant may die eventually due to severe attack of the pest. The insect secretes honey dew on which growth of sooty mould takes place resulting in blackening of leaves, drastically reducing photosynthetic rate and drying of leaves leading to total failure of the crop. Control measures: Spray of imidacloprid 17.8 SL @ 125 ml per hectare at 15 days intervals is effective in reducing the incidence of whitefly as well as MYMV disease. Pod borer: This pest has become a limiting factor in the cultivation of summer mungbean. The incidence of pod borer found at the time of grain filling stage and the immature larvae of the borer feed on leaves, flowers, pods and seeds in pods. Pod borer defoliation is characterized by Indian Farming 12 November 2023 rounded chew marks and angular holes. Control measures: Spray of Indoxacarb 14.5 SC @ 65g a.i./ha at the appearance of larvae in the field. Spray of emmamectin benzoate 5 WG @ 0.2 g/L water effectively manages the larval population. Seed yield Farmers can get good yields of mungbean crop by implementing the improved packages and management practices of summer mungbean cultivation. Seed yield of summer mungbean generally ranges from 8 to 12 q/ha depending upon type of variety, soil and climatic condition and production technology. Farmer perceptions The farmers, who cultivated improved variety of mungbean (var.