 • Development of suitable groundnut based cropping systems for enhancing input (including water) use efficiency and development of suitable agronomic packages for paddy fallow situation • Development of integrated nutrient, insect and dis~ase management packages for the existing and emerging problems • Conservation and utilization of new groundnut germplasm to introduce novel genetic variability V. Approach to the XI five year plan The present National Agriculture Policy spells out the new priorities to enable the farm sector to face the challenges arising out of economic liberalization and globalisation. During XI plan period special effort will be made to raise the productivity and production of groundnut at a globally competitive cost of production to meet the increasing domestic demand for edible oil generated by unabated demographic pressures and exploit the potential of groundnut for export and for value added products. To achieve this goal, a very high priority will be accorded to evolving new location specific and economically viable improved groundnut varieties and eco‐friendly system oriented and integrated production and protection technologies. High input use efficiency, more and more dependence on non‐synthetic inputs, reducing the risk associated with groundnut cultivation will be the important plans of action.Exploitation of the lower risk and high potential of rabi/ summer groundnut will be expedited. Technologies for slowly developing niches of paddy fallow, residual moisture and spring groundnut will be strengthened. Re‐introduction of groundnut in those areas of rice ‐ wheat system of northern India where groundnut used to be an important crop will be attempted. www.icar.org.in 44 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Crop Science All India Coordinated Research Project on Honey Bees and Pollinators 1. Title of the Project : All India Coordinated Project on Honey Bees and Pollinators 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr. R.K. Lakra, Project Coordinator, AICRP on Honey Bees, ICAR, APT Building, CCS Haryana Agril.University, Hisar – 125 004, Haryana Phone No.: 01662‐30897 Fax No. 01662‐34952. E‐mail: rklakra11@rediffmail.com,pchb@hau.ernet.in 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years) (2002‐2007): Royal Jelly Production: It has been observed that royal jelly production can be optimized by the use of 150 grafts in PVC Cell cups per bee colony of European honey bee. Harvesting of Extra Pollen: It has been established that the harvesting of extra pollen as bee food by the use of Apis mellifera bee is best done by the use of pollen traps with hole size of 5 mm. The traps should be used at an interval of 3 days to have the best result of pollen separation without having adverse effect on hive health and development. Pollen harvest at the rate of over 2.5 kg/colony/year is possible for A.mellifera.