 A booklet entitled “Strengthening the Agriculture Education through Digital Interventions” along with Agriculture Experts Information System (AEIS) (https:// aeis.icar.gov.in) and Management System for StudentREADY were also released during the VC Conference. • Virtual classroom and Agri-Diksha web education channel: The new paradigm of digital learning in agricultural education system has been established at 18 Agricultural Universities across India by ICAR-IASRI under the aegis of NAHEP. This was inaugurated by Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Rural Development and Panchayati Raj. Virtual classroom is an online space that simulates a live classroom for students and faculties. Agri- DIKSHA web channel is an interactive portal for facilitating teachers to develop and broadcast virtual learning modules and students stand to benefit from lectures delivered through video capture, quick access to high quality video repository and anytime, anywhere accessibility through laptop or mobile. Virtual classrooms are equipped with Digital Podium; Interactive Panel connected to the PC with options to write digitally; Visualizer with optical zoom features and Tracking camera with inbuilt AI (artificial intelligence) technology. • Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmer’s Welfare inaugurated “Poshan Vatika Maha Abhiyan & Tree Plantation” at all the KVKs/Institutes/ AUs on the occasion of Prime Minister’s 71st Birthday. ICAR-IASRI has designed and developed a portal “Plant Trees” (https:// planttrees.icar.gov.in) which provides a unified platform for KVKs/Institutes/AUs to record the number of trees planted, upload images of the events and record any other key information about the event. Empowering farm women ICAR-Central Institute for Women in Agriculture (CIWA), Bhubaneswar carries out action research programmes on diverse aspects of women in agriculture. ICAR-CIWA has a mandate of undertaking research on gender issues in agriculture and allied fields, gender- equitable agricultural policies/ programmes, responses and coordinating research through its AICRP centres spread across 12 states in India. Various research and extension based activities are carried out through in- house, inter-institutional, network or collaborative and coordinated modes of research. During the reporting year the ICAR-CIWA carried out research activities focussing on farm women nutritional security, livelihood enhancement, technological empowerment, drudgery reduction and entrepreneurship development. Women in agriculture database: Women’s involvement in agriculture is diverse. The sectoral contribution of farm women indicated that the highest female agricultural workers as per cent of population (>28%) was in agro climatic region (ACR) 7 and 14. A total of five ACR (7, 8, 9, 10, 14) had more than 20% female agricultural workers and five ACR (3, 5, 6, 12 and 15) lower than 10%. Similarly, as per cent of population female cultivators were highest (22.