 Sustainable development goals (SDGs) of the UNO In the 2030 agenda, the United Nations has set 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which were Table 3. Minor vegetables as source of food system in NE region of India Species Diversity rich area Cucurbita ficifolia, Coccinia indica, Cucumis callosus, Cucumis melo var. momordica, Luffa acutangula, Luffa cylindrical, Momordica cochinchinensis, Momordica dioca, Trichosanthus anguina, Trichosanthus dioca, Cylanthera pedata, Benincasa hispida, Sechium edule, Cucurbita maxima Cucurbita moschata,Cucurbita pepo, Solanum macrocarpon, Solanum xanthcarpum, Solanum indicum, Solanum mammosum, Solanum khasianum, Solanum torvum, Solanum berbisetum, Capsicum annuum var avicular, Capsicum frutescens Assam, Mizoram, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Manipur, Tripura, Sikkim The 17 SDGs of the UNO are • No Poverty • Zero Hunger • Good Health and Well-being • Quality Education • Gender Equality • Clean Water and Sanitation • Affordable and Clean Energy • Decent Work and Economic Growth • Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure • Reduced Inequality • Sustainable Cities and Communities • Responsible Consumption and Production • Climate Action • Life Below Water • Life on Land • Peace and Justice and Strong Institutions • Partnerships to achieve the Goal Indian Farming 65 June 2023 The ACs contribute directly or indirectly to meet the SDGs, as: • ACs improve rural income (SDG # 1, 8, 10) • ACs reduce malnutrition rates (SDG # 2) • ACs reduce obesity rates (SDG # 3) • ACs promote sustainability and consumer choice (SDG # 4, 12) • ACs reduce chemical leaching (SDG # 6, 14) • ACs promote green bio-fuel (SDG # 7) • ACs enhance traditional knowledge as cultural heritage practices (SDG # 11) • ACs reduce carbon dioxide emission and contribute to climate change mitigation (SDG # 13) • ACs increase export and trade from their centre of origin (SDG # 17) SUMMARY Alternate crops can be used as a viable option for sustainable food systems owing to their high nutritive value and/or other health benefits or agronomical importance. These ACs or underutilised crops were farmed largely in traditional systems, but they somehow lost relevance. Now, they have regained it and are becoming more and more well-liked. The introduction of ACs to a region, such as a low-productivity area, would aim to promote food availability in that specific location in terms of high quantity, quality, and nutritional characteristics. *Corresponding author’s email: tusar@rediffmail.com Contributions of ACs in SDGs adopted by world leaders at a historic UN Summit officially came into force on 1 January, 2016. Though, the time is limited to achieve these SDGs, yet the ACs can play a very vital role in achieving many of these SDGs directly or indirectly. ACs are very promising to meet sustainable food system in future agriculture. The introduction of ACs also complies with the SDGs set by the UN.