5% and 27%, respectively, by Open Competition. Schemes and syllabi for Limited Departmental Competitive Examination for Section Officers/Assistant Administrative Officers have been revised/formulated. The Budget Estimates (BE) and Revised Estimates (RE) of DARE and ICAR (Plan, Non-Plan) for 2000-2001 were Rs 14,045.5 and Rs 13,250 million, respectively, and BE for 2001-2002 (Plan and Non-Plan) is Rs 13,890.5 million. The Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) as well as ICAR are using Hindi in their official work. Most of the computers at the ICAR Headquarters are bilingual. At the ICAR headquarters ‘Hindi Chetna Maas’ was observed from 1 October 2001. During the year, 55 ICAR awards under 11 categories were approved, honouring 3 institutions and 48 scientists and 10 associates. Two agricultural journalists were honoured for the first time. And two new awards, viz. N G Ranga Farmer Award for Diversified Agriculture and Choudhary Devi Lal Outstanding AICRP Award, have been finalized this year. The prize money of Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Award has been increased from Rs 0.1 million to Rs 0.3 million. In International Co-operation agreements were signed between India and Cuba and between the ICAR, New Delhi, and National Agricultural Research Institute, Lima, Peru, for extension of Work Plans. The ICAR, New Delhi and the CNSTR, Burkinafaso, signed a Work Plan for Co-operation in Agricultural Research and Education. Besides, a fresh Work Plan was also signed between the ICAR and IPGRI. The Council had 5 foreign collaborative projects, one each under Indo-UK Project, Indo-the Netherland Project, Indo-Swiss Project, Indo-FAO Project and Indo-USA Project. About 50 Indian scientists were sent abroad for training or on deputation. Training courses were also organized for foreign students. Under protocol activities, 13 foreign delegations visited India and about 120 Indian delegations visited foreign countries. Counsellors’ Meet of the Counsellors In-charge of Agriculture of different Embassies/High Commissions was the major event of the year. The Directorate of Information and Publications of Agriculture brought out 30 publications in English and 20 in Hindi besides regular research monthly journals/ magazines, viz. The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences, The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences, Indian Farming DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 10 and Kheti; and quarterly semi-technical magazines/ newsletters, viz. Indian Horticulture, Phal-Phool, Krishi Chayanika, ICAR Reporter, ICAR News and ARIS News. Special issues/accent numbers of periodicals were brought out on the occasions of the World Food Day, International Conference on Sugarcane, National Symposium on Floriculture in the New Millennium, ICAR Foundation Day, Biotechnology and Plant Protection. The DIPA earned about Rs 3.