 Another investigation reported that semi-natural ecosystems contained on an average 3-fold higher amount of MBC and WOC (water extractable organic carbon) in the topmost 0–10 cm layer than their respective human interrupted agroecosystems (Pabst et al., 2013). Tillage actually breaks the soil pan, enhances the soil aeration and exposure to SOM, and enhances aggregate-protected SOM to microbial attack hence reducing the C content. The sub-surface soils of RW, RV and MW had considerable MBC values because of MBC of soils are high in close vicinity to rhizosphere (Paul and Clark, 1996). S. Das et al. Soil & Tillage Research 223 (2022) 105443 7 5. Conclusions The native forest (NF) had higher SOC content than all other land uses, including the cropping systems, even though regular organic matter is added in crop fields. The main reason for crop lands to have less organic carbon than NF is the regular residue removal along with intensive tillage. Forest soil had higher aggregate-associated C in all the aggregate size fractions, whereas MW had lowest aggregates stability and aggregate-associated C. Although aggregate-associated C was more in forestry, surface (0–15 cm) soil aggregation in rice-vegetable system and forestry showed similar values in macroaggregates due to periodic and heavy application of FYM in vegetables. From environmental sus­ tainability point of view, vegetation restoration (as in forest soils) improved SOC sequestration associated with aggregate sizes while sus­ tainable management practices must consequently be employed in all the crop fields in order to achieve soil stability and biological productivity. Declaration of Competing Interest The authors declare no conflict of interest. Acknowledgements The first author is grateful to Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) for providing fellowship to carry out this work. Appendix A. Supporting information Supplementary data associated with this article can be found in the online version at doi:10.1016/j.still.2022.105443. References Abiven, S., Menasseri, S., Chenu, C., 2009. The effects of organic inputs over time on soil aggregate stability–a literature analysis. Soil Biol. Biochem. 41, 1–12. Ashagrie, Y., Zech, W., Guggenberger, G., Mamo, T., 2007. Soil aggregation and total and particulate organic matter following conversion of native forests to continuous cultivation in Ethiopia. Soil Tillage Res. 94, 101–108. Baker, J.M., Ochsner, T.E., Venterea, R.T., Griffis, T.J., 2007. Tillage and soil carbon sequestration — what do we really know? Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 118, 1–5. Balesdent, J., Chenu, C., Balabane, M., 2000. Relationship of soil organic matter dynamics to physical protection and tillage. Soil Tillage Res. 53, 215–230. Barth`es, B.G., Kouakoua, E., Larr´e-Larrouy, M.C., Razafimbelo, T.M., de Luca, E.F., Azontonde, A., Neves, C.S.V.J., de Freitas, P.L., Feller, C.L., 2008.