 The rationale behind this revamp is to give a better look and to make it a source of knowledge bank for progressive farmers and extension workers. Kheti published 6 special issues on the occasion of Environment Day (June), ICAR Foundation Day (July) World Food Day (October) Biotechnology (January) Sugarcane (February) Plant Protection (March). Phal Phool brought out a special issue on Bio-tech Horticulture (July-Sept). In addition to DARE/ICAR Annual Report 2001-2002, some of the important publications brought out by the Hindi Editorial Unit include books such as, Gulab, Biogas,Bharat Mein Sankar Dhan, Phal Vigyan, Himalayan Ke Vanya Pashu, Ghar Ki Bagia, Moti Somvardhan, Bhed Avom Bakri Palan Mein Nasal Sudhar, Madhya aur Aadhunik Kalin Bharat Mein Pashu Palan Avom Pashu Chikitsa Vigyan, etc. Production Unit The Production Unit, being responsible for administrative management of print- ing and publishing books and journals including urgent and time-bound publica- tions for the headquarters of the Council, continued to play an important role in the functioning of the DIPA. All the monthly journals (3 in English and 1 in Hindi) were printed well on time maintaining the desired print quality. Council’s presti- gious quarterly newsletters “ICAR News,’, ‘ICAR Reporter’, and ‘ARIS News’ were printed well in time using the best paper, as required, and the state-of-art print technology to achieve the best print quality, keeping in view their national and international usage. Besides 30 publications in English, 20 in Hindi were printed maintaining the high class print standards. Special care is taken for the printing of annual publications of the Council re- quired for AGM of ICAR Society such as DARE/ICAR Annual Report in English and Hindi, Agenda Notes, Speeches of Agriculture Minister and DG, ICAR, ICAR Budget Book, etc. and other publications assigned to the Unit. The time-bound publications/certificates/citations/invitation cards meant for ICAR Award Ceremony were also produced nicely within the given short-time during the reported period. The selected important publications brought out in English were Handbook of Horticulture Research, ‘Odyssey of Sandalwood Tree’, ‘Minor Spices and Condi- ments’, ‘ICAR Telephone Directory 2001’, ‘Textbook of Food Science and Tech- nology’, ‘Vegetables, Tuber Crops and Spices’, ‘Animal Genetic Resources of In- dia’, ‘Fish Gear and Craft Technology’, In Hindi, Rajbhasha Aalok-2001, ‘Masalon Ki Kheti’, ‘Phaloupadan Arthsastra’, ‘Mein Hoon Sankar Dhan’, ‘Moonga Resham 2001-2002, Poster for Hindi Week, etc. were printed. Assistance was provided to NATP in production of various publications brought out by them during the year. Education Division was also assisted in the production of various curricula. For Hindi Section of the Council’s various certificates and citations were designed and produced in Hindi. The Unit continued participating in the important activities of the DIPA.