 The startup has raised over $250 million in funding and is one of the fastest-growing Agri-tech companies in India. ➢ CropIn is the most sophisticated AI platform for food and agriculture in the world, having been founded in 2010. With the use of digital technology and predictive Tanuja Talwar, Parul Talwar https://iaeme.com/Home/journal/IJAIRD 166 editor@iaeme.com intelligence, CropIn Cloud—the first industry cloud for agriculture in the world— enables stakeholders to make decisions that improve farming productivity, efficiency, and sustainability. ➢ AgroStar is a startup company based in Pune that uses a mobile app to supply farmers with agricultural supplies like seeds, fertilizer, and insecticides. To aid farmers in making decisions, the platform also offers weather information and agronomy guidance. ➢ DeHaat is a Patna-based start-up that offers farmers complete agricultural services, such as market access, financing, and field inputs. Serving over 400,000 farmers in India, the business operates a network of more than 500 collecting centers. ➢ With the help of data science, design, and technology, KrishiHub is creating an agricultural ecosystem for Indian farmers. Compared to the conventional approach, its Artificial Intelligence (AI) powered supply chain allows for up to a 25% reduction in vegetable waste and farm-to-doorstep delivery in less than 12 hours. Conclusion Integration of Artificial intelligence in agriculture sector will help to increase the productivity and output of the sector. AI will help to use the resources efficiently and effectively. Various AI technologies such as remote sensing and satellite imagery, wireless sensor network, agricultural robots help in early detection of any disease and nutrient level in soil. Not only this, Artificial Intelligence also helps to curb the defects in the supply chain. Many Agri tech starts- ups have been started in previous years. In order to promote Agri- tech startups the Government has established various accelerators and incubators which provide support, guidance and funding to the start-ups. However, the access to this advancement has reached only a few percentage of farmers. The Government and Private sector should come forward to educate the farmers about the technologies in market for agriculture so that they could gain the maximum benefit out of these. Agriculture sector has a lot of opportunity to develop and absorb deep technologies, including digital tech (sensors, IoT, blockchain, ML, and image processing applications), because of the rapidly emerging number of start-ups that are altering old farming methods. This unexplored market is anticipated to expand and gain broader acceptance in the upcoming years. It is important to involve the youth of the nation in this vast unexplored arena for developing more and more technologies helping farmers to resolve their problems related to agriculture.