No Topic Page No 1 Rain Water Management 3 2 Soil & Water Management 23 3 Tillage Practices 35 4 Crops & Cropping Systems 39 5 Pest & Disease Management 61 6 Farm Implements 101 7 Grain/Seed Storage 125 8 Horticultural Crops 161 9 Veterinary Science & Animal Husbandry 249 10 Fisheries 387 11 Food Product Development 403 12 Natural Yarns and Dyes 423 13 Ethnic Food 435 14 Thermal Efficiency 479 15 Weather Forecasting 485 16 Low-cost Housing Material 503  RAIN WATER MANAGEMENT Code : 2024 Title of the ITK : Rain water measurement using rolu (indigenous rain gauge) Description of the ITK : Rolu (7.4" depth × 9" diameter hole on a 3" × 3" × 1.5" granite stone block) is useful in knowing the quantity of rainfall required for sowing. Sowing of seeds in the field is done when the rolu is filled with rainwater. This technique helps the farmers in estimating the rainfall that is sufficient to go for seeding. This method is adopted for sowing dryland crops like sorghum, castor etc. in Alfisols. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Narasimha Reddy, Nallavelli, Ranga Reddy (Andhra Pradesh) Location of use of the ITK : Nallavelli Village, Yacharam Mandal, Ranga Reddy (Andhra Pradesh) Experimenters : Dr V.Maruthi, Senior Scientist (Agronomy), Shri N. N. Srivastava, Principal scientist (Agrometeorology), and Dr G. Subba Reddy, Head, Division of Crop Sciences, Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad METHODOLOGY After interaction with the farmers about 10 rain gauges were fabricated with the help of a local mason using the specifications recorded as claimed by the discloser. Indigenous rain gauge and standard rain gauge are shown in Figs 1 and 2. The programme of validation of indigenous rain gauge was implemented under both on-station (CRIDA Research Farm, Gunegal) and on-farm situations in the villages Nallavelli, Nasdiksingaram and Gollapally of Ranga Reddy district during rainy (kharif) season 2002. Indigenous rain gauges were installed close to the standard rain gauges that were already established at Gunegal Research Farm, Nasdiksingaram, Fig. 1. Indigenous rain gauge (rolu) Fig. 2. Standard rain gauge and indigenous rain gauge  RAIN WATER MANAGEMENT Nallavelli and Gollapally to compare their efficiency in terms of correlation and validation in commonly cultivated rainfed crops of sorghum + pigeonpea, castor etc. At each site, circumference area of 0.5 km was taken as a unit for the study. The area of the study under each site was marked into four directions of north, east, south and west. The fields covering the study area were given code numbers and characterized as per the type of crops grown. Monitoring of various agricultural operations performed by different farmers in the study area under different crops were documented.