 Irrigation It is essential to irrigate the crop during January to May at an interval of 10-15 days till the onset of monsoon, by adopting a convenient method of irrigation by hose/sprinkler/mini sprinkler/drip. Weeding Cardamom being a surface feeder, in the first year of planting, weeding at frequent intervals is necessary. Later, depending on the intensity of weed growth, 2-3 rounds of hand weeding at the plant base during May, September and December/January are recommended. Mulching and trashing Entire plantation and particularly the plant bases should be mulched at 5-10 cm thickness using fallen leaves of the shade trees, except during periods of heavy monsoon (June-September). Trashing may be carried out once in a year with the onset of monsoon under rainfed conditions and 2-3 times in high-density plantation provided with irrigation facilities. Pruning Pruning may be done during January and September which coincides with peak thrips population. Earthing up of the plant base and root zone with top soil is recommended during October-December. In valleys and high rainfall areas with medium slopes, suitable drains (45 cm depth and 30 cm width) have to be provided in between two rows of cardamom. Manuring Recommended nutrient dosages for cardamom are 75:75:150 kg/ha (rainfed - two splits) and 125:125:250 kg/ha (irrigated- three splits). One-third dosage should be applied during 1st year, which is increased to 2/3rd during 2nd year, and full dose is given from 3rd year onwards. Organic manures like cow dung /compost @ 5 kg/plant may be applied during May/June along with rock phosphate and muriate of potash. Under irrigated condition, manuring can be done in two splits (May and September). Application of neem cake, bone meal or vermicompost @1 kg/plant improves root proliferation and plant growth. Yield Cardamom starts yielding at 2-3 years after planting. The yield stabilizes after the fourth year. During second year, it yields at an average of 50 kg per acre, at third year, it yields 145 kg per acre and in the fourth year, it yields 200 kg per acre. Pests and diseases Cardamom thrips, shoot and capsule borer, root grub are major pests that infest cardamom. Root or rhizome borer, capsule borer, hairy caterpillars, shoot fly and nematodes are minor pests observed in cardamom. Diseases such as leaf spot, leaf rot and damping off diseases are common in cardamom nursery. Whereas in plantation, ‘Azhukal’ or capsule rot, rhizome rot, leaf blight diseases appear in severe form. Hort Fact Sheet Cardamom at a Glance T Janakiram For further details, please contact or write to: V Aparna and Neema M, ICAR-Central Plantation Crops Research Institute, Kasaragod, Kerala 671 124. Lijo Thomas, ICAR-Indian Institute of Spices Research, Calicut, Kerala 673 012. Cardamom plantation Cardamom - Appangala-1 Cardamom - Avinash Cardamom - Vijetha Cardamom dried Cardamom flower Opened pods  

web link- https://icar.gov.