 The Irrigation Governance Index (IGI) was constructed using 14 indicators, ranging from receipts from public irrigation, electricity charges in agriculture, revenue and capital expenditure on public irrigation, irrigation potential created under the Accelerated Irrigation Benefit Programme (AIBP), net area irrigated by public canals and tanks, stages of groundwater development as per the usage/extraction of water etc. The performance in public irrigation system was captured through the gap between irrigation potential created and potential utilized, and the role of irrigation governance (IGI), rainfall and proportion of area under non-food crops were studied using panel regression. The results 128 ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 129 SOCIAL SCIENCE revealed that an improvement in irrigation governance leads to a reduction in the gap between the irrigation potential created and utilized. On farmers’ perception on risk-taking, insurance uptake and governing factors, field survey was conducted in different districts of Uttar Pradesh. About 400 farmers were surveyed for this purpose. Risk preference attitude was perceived to be influenced by raising more income and profits. Around 40% of farmers reported profit-making as the key driver of risk taking. Equally, the other 40% farmers reported risk-taking as a way of experimenting with new methods. On existing insurance schemes, they opined that premium rates are relatively higher, and delay in compensation payments are much frequent. Both these factors contributed 54% of farmers’ response as major dissatisfaction factors. Analysis of agricultural extension and advisory services in India: A system level perspective: To study the functional nature of Extension and Advisory Services (EAS), a system level analysis was carried out with 36 vegetables, livestock and fishery, in varying degrees. Other EAS providers had varied orientation based on business interest. As compared to crops, livestock extension was not a major target for all categories of EAS providers. At macro level, decomposition of extension expenditure showed that around 92% of total was allocated for crop husbandry and only 0.9% was allocated to animal husbandry and dairy segment. There was not much discrimination in targeting farmers by public service providers covering all categories of farmers; others targeted farmers based on their objectives and business activities. In terms of individual, group, and mass contact, SAUs and KVKs were using all the methods in a balanced way; Departments of Agriculture reported greater use of individual contact method. Considering more number of smallholdings, higher use of individual contact methods by public EAS providers can be understood. However, they were spending less time on advisory and considering the number of vacancies in the department; it is not possible for them to reach all farmers. Therefore, more use of group contact method (like exhibitions, agriculture fair, farmers’ day, etc.