 The device is fitted with a GPS device and the data is relayed real time on a computer or a mobile app. The real time monitoring of data helps in early warning whenever the elephant is in the vicinity of the human settlement. Thermal imaging is a method of improving visibility of objects in a dark environment by detecting the object’s infrared radiation and creating an image based on that information. Physical barrier can be created by forming walls as elephants can’t jump over six feet barrier; bamboo plants can be grown as fencing. Solar-powered fencing is like barbed wire fencing with multiple strands of plain wires and metal/cement/ wooden posts to hold the strands in position. The Fence gives a sharp, short but a non-lethal shock to the intruder and creates psychological fear, against any tampering. The alarm in the system gets activated to alert the inmates of the protected area. Remote injection tranquilizing gun is used in managing big bulls during translocation to other places. Chemicals at the least strength are used on animals for translocation, drugs can be administrative to animals through injection mostly subcutaneous, intramuscular and intravenous, which would result in the fastest absorption of the drug. Disadvantages of the chemicals is difficulty in getting close to the subject and the body weight is difficult to estimate in a fleeing animal as the dose is based on the body weight. 215 Social Issues and Sports Sterilization: To control monkey menace in Himachal Pradesh 1,30,000 monkeys were sterilized by using laparoscopic technique on females. Translocation: The case used for translocation is made up of wood to avoid any causalities. Government guidelines are to be followed during translocation. Holistic HWC management approaches allow species to survive in areas where they otherwise would have become extinct. All species on our planet are essential for maintaining ecosystem health and functions. Some Initiatives such as advisory for management of HWC, empowering Gram Panchayats in dealing with the problematic wild animals as per the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, utilising add-on coverage under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojna for crop compensation against crop damage due to HWC and augmenting fodder and water sources within the forest areas would help reducing human wildlife conflicts. Key takeaway Adoption of early warning systems, creation of barriers, dedicated circle-wise control rooms, identification of hotspots etc. would help in reducing human- wildlife conflict. 216 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS FOR SUSTAINABLE IRRIGATION ROLE OF GOVERNMENT, USERS AND PRIVATE SECTOR Steve Goss Irrigation is essentially an economic activity — farmers irrigate to make money and countries irrigate to make money. Money is the end and water is the means.