 The fodder is free from anti-nutritional factors at every stage of the growth. Indirect benefits are more, viz. enrichment of soil fertility, energy saving, shelters many fauna, environmental friendly, employment to the rural youth etc. This variety is a native to western Rajasthan, hence tolerates high temperatures. Under the changing climate scenario, it may prove as best genotype for the arid zone pastures. SUMMARY To meet the demand of milk and other animal products, strong dairy husbandry is the need of the hour. Healthy animal husbandry requires sufficient fodder of good quality. Western Rajasthan is shelter house of droughts and each year drought like situation prevails. The gap between demand and supply of fodder remained unbridged resulting in semi-starvation of the livestock of the region. High-yielding, drought and temperature resistant varieties may be some good alternatives in bridging this gap. Anjan grass variety CAZRI Anjan 2178, a new state released variety provides more than 100 quintals green fodder and 40 quintals dry matter from one hectare land ideally suitable for the conditions of Rajasthan, may be suitable proposition under the changing climate situation. This thin stemmed leafy variety is quite relished by small ruminants also. *Corresponding author's e-mail: mahavir.rajora@icar.gov.in TEXTBOOK OF WATERSHED HYDROLOGY TECHNICAL ASPECTS Pages: v + 478; Price: ` 1000.00, US$ 90.00; Postage: `50 ISBN No.: 978-81-7164-203-8 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit ICAR-Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan – I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Tel: 011-25843657; email: bmicar@icar.org.in, businessuniticar@gmail.com website: www.icar.gov.in “Textbook of Watershed Hydrology” is an attempt to fill the gap of quality textbooks in one of the major subjects namely the watershed hydrology. It is believed that the principles and practices of watershed hydrology will resolve the national land and water degradation problems. The textbook is divided into 13 Chapters. Beginning with general introduction to hydrology, it covers the chapter-wise global and Indian water balance, precipitation measurement and analysis procedures. SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 9 November 2023 Cultivation of summer mungbean in rice-wheat cropping system Samar Pal Singh1*, Kailash1 and P K Gupta1 1Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Ujwa, New Delhi 110 073 This article describes the impact of summer mungbean demonstrations conducted by KVK Delhi under cluster frontline demonstrations (CFLD) in rice-wheat cropping system in different villages of NCT Delhi. A gain of 22.6% in productivity of mungbean was achieved through the improved packages of practices under CFLD over the farmers’ practices. Keywords: CFLD, KVK, Mungbean, Productivity, Leguminous Indian Farming 73 (11): 09-12; November 2023 R ICE-WHEAT cropping system is a major cropping system of North-West region of India.