 Agricultural activities in agriculture are divided between men and women in many developing countries, and similar patterns are observed in Chandrapur as well (Rao and Raju, 2020). In cotton-growing regions, women engage in activities such as cotton picking, weeding, fertilizer application, and land preparation activities. In paddy-growing regions, weeding, transplanting, harvest­ ing, and postharvest activities are typically the work of women. Table 2 shows the activities that women engage in across seasons for both paddy and cotton farming. Fig. 3a shows the distribution of time spent in agriculture, cooking, and domestic work. As shown in these figures, the average time spent in agriculture reaches up to 333 min in the peak seasons of sowing (July­ –August) and harvesting (October–November). Due to small landhold­ ings, most women engage in agricultural wage work even if they own land, and the wage rates are market-level wages. We analyze men’s time use, as shown in the second panel of Fig. 3b. Men spend almost equal time when it comes to time spent in agricultural work. However, if we compare socializing time, men spend about three times as much as women in social activities, averaging 292 min across the seasons. Their contribution to domestic work and food preparation is quite low, averaging about 33 min and 39 min, respectively. This reflects that men do not face time constraints, as do women, as they are not involved in household-related activities. Therefore, we argue that women’s wages truly reflect this time trade-off between agriculture and time for home-based activities, while men’s wages reflect a pure income effect. There is a variation in nutrient intakes across seasons as well. The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) reports the recommended daily allowance (RDA) for vital nutrients in Indian diets, and these are shown in Table 3. These RDAs are defined for men and women sepa­ rately, based on the level of physical activity they engage in. We compare our average daily intakes for women across seasons with the RDAs in Table 3. It is important to note that, except for calories and fats, all other nutrients fall short of the RDAs. Particularly concerning are levels observed for proteins, iron, zinc, and vitamin A. 4.2. Women’s opportunity cost of time and nutrition: Full sample Table 4 explores the relationship between the opportunity cost of women’s time and nutrition indicators. Panel A shows the effects without any controls, and Panel B has included control variables, such as market prices of foods, etc. Panel C includes both controls and season dummies. The individual-level fixed effects estimates show that an in­ crease in wages is negatively associated with the intake of calories, protein, fats, iron, zinc, and vitamin A. All the regression models across Panels A, B, and C contains individual fixed effects.