..................... 55 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report List of Tables Table 1: Summary of 3GPP Releases upto Release 15 and their Main features ............ccccccccsssssssseeeeeeesssssseees 9 Table 2: Summary of 5G related 3GPP Releases and their Main features ...........ccccccsssssseeceeeesssssssseeeeeeeesseees 11 Table 3: Summary of Minimum Technical Performance REquireMent ............csscccesssseecesesceeeeseseeceesseeeeeesaes 13 Table 4: Various IEEE 802.11 Standards ...........ccsccccssssscccsssseecesssneeccsssseecesseeeecseseeeeseseeeeeesneeeeeseneeeeeeseaeeeeseeaes 18 Table 5: List of some commonly used models in predicting Crop traits ...........ccssccccssssccessseeecesseeeceessneeceseeaes 30 Table 6: Sensors used in various agriculture APPliCAatiONS............ccccesscccssssccesssseceeesesseecessseeeessesseeeeeseseeeeseeaes 43 Table 7: ITU Standards related to Agriculture ............ccccccccssscccesssscccssesseeceseseeecesesaeeceseseeeeeesaeeeseesuseesesaeeceseeaes 54 Table 8: ISO Standards related to Agriculture ............ccccccccssscccesssseceesssseeeseesseeeessseeecesesseeeessaeeeseeaseeeessaseeeseeaes 55 TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre viii Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 1 Executive Summary Agriculture, with its allied sectors, is the largest source of livelihoods in India. Agriculture employs more than 50% of the Indian workforce and contributes approx. 20% to the country's GDP. India ranks first in the production of milk, jute and pulses, and is placed second in producing wheat, rice, groundnut, vegetables, fruits, cotton and sugarcane. India is also among the leading producers of fish, livestock, poultry, spices and plantation crops1. However, due to small landholdings, farmers’ incomes are definitely not sufficient. The agricultural domain is also facing numerous challenges related to increase in productivity, climate change, crop health monitoring, and water management, as well as optimal use of fertilizers. To address these challenges, IoT technology and AI/ML is opening up new promising technological paths and pushing the future of agriculture to the next level. The convergence of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and the Internet of Things (IoT) can significantly revolutionize agricultural sector, offering a multitude of benefits that enhance efficiency, sustainability, and productivity. Precision agriculture can optimize various aspects of farming operations with use of IoT and AI-driven analytics. Real-time monitoring of soil conditions, crop health and weather forecast enables farmers to make informed decisions, enhancing crop yield with efficient utilization of resources. AI/ML can also be used in yield prediction, pest and diseases detection, weed detection, livestock management etc.