3 times better than recommended dose of fertilizer. Biological filter for safe wastewater irrigation exploiting microbial bioremediation trait: For removal of heavy metals and pharmaceutical products, the strains P. Hyper-spectral signatures of soil samples collected from different Agro-Ecological Sub-regions of India Customized drum type composting unit for enhance decomposition of organic residues. 45 Salient Achievements of the Projects aeruginosa, A. baumannii and B. cereus were found to be effective and the immobilized cells on the filter performed better than the free cells. A novel consortium of immobilized axenic microbial hydrogel beads was used to house the bacterial isolates minimizing the antagonism among strains. The consortia absorbed 43% Cr, 62% Cd and 19% Ni higher than those with axenic beads. Four novel biofilters, namely, i) Biobed, ii) Tunnel, iii) Gabion and iv) Column biofilters were fabricated with packing materials. The biofilters, showed metal-reduction efficiency of 65%, 48% and 43% for Cr, Cd and Ni respectively with synthetic wastewater. Paracetamol and ibuprofen were also reduced by 39% and 25% respectively. The performance of biofilters with factual wastewater was better than synthetic wastewater in reducing pollutants. The reduction of heavy metals, was increased about 10% with the industrial wastewater, and 9 percent for pharmaceuticals in hospital wastewater. Microbial-biofilms were developed in all the filters. In electro- conductive graphite, it was more compact, and resistive to washout at hydraulic pressure. The restricted electron-movement in batch, limits the efficiency of graphite-biofilter, to no better than FRP or gravel. The inoculation of sulphate reducing bacteria (SRB) reduced SO42- to S- using organics as e-donor. X-Ray Diffraction (XRD) peaks suggested the accumulation of several metal precipitates as crystals on material surfaces. Field Emission Scanning Electron Microscopy (FE-SEM) showed uneven distribution of elements. Energy dispersive X-Ray analysis (EDX) of packing materials showed heavy metal accumulation on biofilms highlighting role of biofilm in metal removal. Effect of elevated CO2 and temperature on water productivity and nutrient use in soybean-wheat cropping system: Response of soybean and wheat to climate change variables was seen at different extents. Elevated temperature showed significant reduction or similar grain yield in wheat, whereas significant increase in grain yield was observed in soybean. On an average, 15% yield advantage was observed in wheat as compared to more than 40% in soybean under recommended dose of fertilizer with CO2 enrichment. This field study clearly showed a conspicuous increase in nutrient uptake and mining from soil under future climate conditions. Elevated CO2 resulted higher uptake of N by 18–61%, P by 23–62%, and K by 22–62% in soybean. Similarly, additional N uptake to the extent of 15-25 kg N ha -1 was observed in wheat.