 459 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Strategies to be followed in Animal Husbandry Sector Š Š Promoting dairy, goatry, piggery, poultry and fish production as a viable diversification option to declining economics of traditional crop production Š Š Ensuring quality feeds to dairy animals and scientific feeding of the animals Š Š Making hay and silage which will support for conservation of green fodder for year round availability Š Š Establishment of slaughter houses Š Š Training and skill development of farmers in handling and preservation techniques, value addition, packaging, quality and hygiene of milk and milk products. Strategies to be followed in Fisheries Sector Š Š Usage of good quality fish seed can increase farmers income by 20-30 per cent Š Š Using fast growing varieties of fishes like Amur Carp, Jayanti Rohu for fish farming can increase farmers income by 10-15 per cent Š Š Cultivating brackish water shrimp L. vannameiin saline areas can increase farmers income Š Š Proper feeding of fish with good quality fish feed can increase farmers income by 25- 50 per cent Š Š Fish integration with piggery is proving very beneficial to increase fish production Š Š Training farmers for advance methods of live fish handling and transportation. Use of advanced techniques for live fish transportation which can fetch them 30-40per cent more income than selling fish in dead and iced form Š Š Establishing infrastructure facilities for dead fish icing and packaging that will reduce post-harvest loss due to decrease in value through spoilage Š Š Establishing well equipped and scientifically designed fish markets for auctioning and retailing fish with proper facility of live-fish stocking, dead-fish icing, packaging, waste disposal and sewage treatment plants etc. Š Š Encourage fish processing and value addition among farmers Š Š Training of fish famers and other stakeholders for post-harvest handling 22.3 Summary Recommendations Agrarian distress has been contributing to disillusion in the farming profession. The State farmers have been contributing to food security of the country while he remaining in perpetual stress, so much so that most of their offspring do not want to continue in farming. Increasing income substantially from farming is the way forward to alleviate this distress. Punjab is a relatively progressive state so far as agricultural growth and development is concerned. Agricultural productivity is very high and the State tops in agricultural income among all the states of the country. As is expected, the future growth in agricultural income 460 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 will be slow. The challenge becomes more ardous keeping in view the dominance of wheat- paddy cycle, smaller increase in output prices than input prices, fall in water table, higher incidence of pests and diseases and greater climate variability affecting productivity and enhancing cost of production.