 Less than 50 Average If a KVK gets average grading consecutively for two years, an Advisory Team be set up by Zonal Project Director to find out the major constraints and suggest appropriate measures for improving the performance. 104 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK (i) Third party evaluation of KVKs: It is to be taken up by the ZPD for assessing the performance of KVKs in the Zone once in 10 years. (j) Specific roles of Zonal Project Directorates ●KVKs have to be assigned to different scientists of the ZPDs for monitoring and evaluation. Involve actively in development of deliverable for each of the KVKs. ●Devote more time to visiting KVKs and their field activities besides administration and budgeting. ●Visit all the KVKs in their respective zones in a phased manner to address the issues at KVK level. ●Share success stories of KVKs for cross KVK learning and getting farmers response on those successful technologies for up-scaling. ●Make annual ranking of KVKs as first, second, third, fourth etc based on a set of objective performance indicators, which should not cover, only quantitative but also qualitative aspects of the performance as well. ●Coordinate different host organizations as well as State Development Departments. ●Create data base, document technological inventory and ITK of zone and conduct impact analysis. ●Monitor infrastructural development, staffing, budgeting and funding. 8.3 State level: The responsibility of coordination and monitoring at State Level will be with Directors of Extension of Agricultural Universities in coordination with ZPD. (a) State Action Plan Meeting of KVKs: State Action Plan Workshop should be conducted once in a year by the Director of Extension, for formulating technical programme of KVKs for effective convergence, implementation and monitoring of the scheme. It is to be conducted by the Zonal Project Directorate for formulation of technical programme of KVKs as well as monitoring and implementation of the same. The state-wise Committee for approval of Annual Action Plan of KVKs in the Zone is as follows: Zonal Project Director Chairperson Directors of Extension of SAUs in concerned state Member One Directors of ICAR Institutes/representative having KVKs in the Zone Member Director of Agriculture or representative from concerned State Member Two farmer representative Member One Scientist from the ZPD Member Secretary (b) Directors of Extension Education of SAUs: Overseeing of KVKs is the major responsibility of Directorates of Extension of concerned Agricultural Universities in their respective jurisdiction. The specific responsibilities of Directorates of Extension are defined below: – Technological backstopping and knowledge empowerment of staff at KVKs within the jurisdiction of University concerned, irrespective of the host Institution i.e. ICAR/NGO/SAU/others.