 He is an academician, a media consultant and a social worker. He is working towards making policy interventions for the rural development and for validating true Indian philosophy of the Integral Humanism based on the experience gained through field-work and interactions with the rural people of India. 181 Health and Good Living and to create awareness of various physical changes they go through. In villages, the people still follow traditions and know the importance of eating right food at the right time and according to seasons. In Rajasthan, during hottest days of summer they celebrate “Peepal ki Shadi” and have sheetal pay, Gulkand, Rayta, which provide calmness to body and also enhances mood. In the last two years of corona, we have quite often heard the word immunity and we found colostrum capsules were in a great demand due to its properties to enhance immunity. When calf is born, people used to celebrate it and distribute colostrum to the whole village alternatively. So, the Utsav and nutrition were going hand in hand. Even buttermilk was not sold, it was kept in the pot outside the house and anyone could take it as and when required and was the easy source of probiotics to the poor without cost. Pumpkin was grown easily and in ample quantity and was left outside the house or at crossroads and was called maind ki sabji and anyone could take it. Now we also know how nutritious is this — it contains aurum the gold chemical. Lotus stem/ kamal kakdi (Bhasid) has been used to make sabji and it is highly nutritious and it also served to clean pond and to increase soil fertility of the neighboring soils. Today doctors say “An apple a day keeps the doctor away” but when apple travel from Kashmir to Kanya Kumari, it loses its nutrition. It is very important to use local and seasonal fruits as they have high nutritional value and are easily available in that area. Along with the food, the utensils used for cooking also play a very important role in cooking and is based on the type of food required to cook in them. For example, bajra khichdi was cooked in heavy base utensils as it required more time for cooking. Different type of utensils such as metal, terracotta/ clay pot, stoneware and even leaves were used for cooking. All these traditions were followed with the help of the Dharma. Nutrition was also delivered through prasad in all the religions and places according to the season. It is time to go back to our roots, to re- discover our glorious food heritage into our daily routine, our lifestyle. It is a firm time-tested belief, passed down from our ancestors, that cooking and eating in a harmonious and calm atmosphere at regular timing, nourishes and enhances our complete well-being. Nutrition security was in our tradition and now we have to think how we can go back to these traditions along with what more we can do to maintain food and nutritional security.