 Chuli or shad fruits and seeds are also eaten and the fruiting season is May-June Keywords: chuli or shad extraction, kohli Dr Onkar Shad Prakash Lodge, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2748 Preparation of childe from ogla Childe is prepared from ogla which is a traditional crop in areas of Kinnaur, Kullu and Shimla districts of Himachal Pradesh. Ogla seeds are ground in gharat, the traditional floor mill run by water and flour is made. Childe is made by making solution of flour with water and the solution is spread on tawa and some oil is spread over it. It is served as a very light, digestible and tasty dish. Keywords: childe, ogla, gharat, flour mill Dr Onkar Shad Prakash Lodge, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2755 Kathu bhazi and bedha preparation from kathu The leaves of young kathu plants are plucked, cooked and used as vegetable by the poor families of Himchal Pradesh. The bedha is also made by grinding the leaves and cooking it with bread. Kathu cultivation is done on higher altitudes of Kullu district of Himachal Pradesh. It is also grown as mixed crop and kathu seeds are used as food and fodder also. Keywords: kathu bhazi, bedha Dr Onkar Shad Prakash Lodge, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2760 Preparation of vegetable curry from the immature flower buds of kachnar This dish is highly nutritive and hygeinic, and has good taste. The immature, delicate buds of Shri Yash Paul Gopalpur, Sarkaghat, Mandi (Himachal Pradesh)  kachnar (Bauhinia variageta) are collected, washed in water and cut into small pieces. About 20 g each of garlic, onion and 5 g chilli and salts are added. The above ingredients are mixed thoroughly and then fried as other curries are fried. This dish is then eaten with rice or chapatis according to taste.This ITK is practiced till date in Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh. Keywords: kachnar (Bauhinia variegata), buds,onion, garlic 171005 2750 Preparation of bharunni This vegetable is prepared in Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh. Bharunni is prepared from immature fruit buds of Ficus vacalta locally called deveri. This vegetable is very delicious, nutritious and hygienic. The immature fruit buds of Ficus vacalta (deveri) are collected and boiled till it gets softened. The water is then extracted and buds are fried in ghee or oil. Onion, garlic, chilli and salt are added to prepare a thick gravy. When gravy is prepared soft fruits of deveri are mixed in the gravy. This curry is boiled upto 30-40 minutes over adequate heat. This vegetable dish is eaten mostly with chapatis.This ITK is being practised in Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. Keywords: bharunni, deveri, Ficus vacalta Ms Roshni Devi Gopalpur, Sarkaghat, Mandi (Himachal Pradesh) 2758 Preparation of suka meat It is natural preservation of meat. The meat of sheep and goat is dried in December- January, by hanging meat pieces on a rope, in a room.