 Keywords: haemorrhagic septicaemia, ash of cowdung Farmers of village Bichuria of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh are following this practice for the treatment of haemorrhagic septicaemia. In this treatment, honey and lime are mixed properly and applied on neck. It is found to be effective to cure haemorrhagic septicaemia. Keywords: honey, lime, haemorrhagic septicaemia Farmers of village Bichuria of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh follow this ITK for the treatment of haemorrhagic septicaemia in animals. Honey and Shri Surender Pal, S/o Shri Than Singh, Kamua Kala, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Devi Ram, S/o Shri Brij Lai, Bishesharpur, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Krishna, S/o Shri Ghasi Ram, Khai Khera, Rithoura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Md. Noor Ahmed, S/o Shri Md. Lai Mohamed village Bichuria, Balia, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Ms Natho, W/o Shri Ali Hasan, Bichuria, Balia, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3234 Treatment of haemorrhagic septicaemia in animals with cow-urine and desi wine 3235 Treatment of haemorrhagic septicaemia in animals with tutiys, aram and molasses 3236 Cure of throat problem in cattle by use of phagda 3237 Treatment of galghotu in animals with arna, turmeric and garlic kalajeera (Bunium persicum) (each 50 g) are mixed and applied on the neck of infected animal. Haemorrhagic septicaemia is cured in short time. Keywords: hemorrhagic septicaemia, honey, kalajeera Half litre cow-urine and 250 ml local wine are mixed and given to the affected animal 3-4 times a day. This treatment is followed by cattle owners of village Rajpuri of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh to cure haemorrhagic septicaemia. Keywords: haemorrhagic septicaemia, cow urine, local wine Mixture of tutiys, aram and molasses (each 100 g) is prepared and applied over the infected part of the body. This treatment controls the haemorrhagic septicaemia within 2-3 days. This treatment is followed in village Khiraka of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: haemorrhagic septicaemia, tutiys, aram, molasses Galghotu is a common disease in cattle. For the treatment of this disease a small branch of phagda (Ficus sp.) is taken. It is kept in hot ash and then touched to the neck of the infected cattle twice a day for 3 days. Keywords: galghotu, phagda, neck, hot ash Galghotu usually appears in animals during the rainy season. In this disease due to swelling on tongue the animal stops feeding and in acute cases animal may die. For its treatment, the animal keepers of village Damana of Jhadol area in Rajasthan follow this ITK. A lotion is prepared by mixing Shri Brij Lai, S/o Shri Kare Ram. Rajpuri (Nawada), Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Krishna Pal, S/o Shri Tikka Ram, Khiraka, dist.