 The implement is operated with one pair of bullocks. It has trapezoidal shaped plastic seed box having capacity of 3.0 kg. It consists of seed metering plate, shaft with adjustable opening through rack and pinion mechanism for free flow of seed in seed tube. The depth of sowing of maize seed with the planter is 50 mm. Average draft was 14.86 kg at 2.2 km/h forward speed. The average seed rate and actual field capacity were 20 kg/ha and 0.044 ha/h, respectively. Improved animal housing structure for draught and milch animals A solar power-assisted air -cooling system with fogger was installed inside the animal housing structure to provide comfort to animals. Solar panel of 36 W was been installed to operate DC pump with automatic time Mechanization and Energy Management icar annual report 2022-23 130 controlled switch at discharge rate of 5.5 L/h. Twenty-six foggers were operated with solar powered DC pump at an operating pressure of 4.0 Pa to form mist of 65 micron in size. Water droplets were not allowed to fall on the ground surface. The air temperature inside the animal housing structure was 4°C less compared to the outside air temperature and relative humidity was 59%. The air-cooling system was found effective in providing comfort to the animals. Energy inflow and outflow analysis for production of wheat crop Energy in different forms is important for agricultural production. Increase in the level of farm mechanization has helped to enhance crop productivity and maintain timeliness in the operation. A total 220 farmer’s data has been collected from 11 villages of the Vindhyan plateau based on the random selection method. Farmers under marginal (<1 ha), small (1–2 ha) and others (>2 ha) were considered to calculate energy requirement for soybean crop production. Energy consumption in seedbed preparation, sowing, fertilizer application, irrigation, harvesting and threshing were found to be 8, 16, 35, 25 and 16%, respectively. When it comes to energy sources, chemical fertilizers accounted for 33% of total energy input followed by fuel (25%), electricity (20%) and seeds (13%). The total input energy has been calculated between 13,689 to 23,544 MJ/ha. The specific energy of crop production in the selected sequence is 4.40 MJ/kg with an average energy productivity of 0.23 kg/MJ. Reactor for the continuous production of biochar The electric pyrolytic reactor of 12 kW capacity has been developed for continuous biochar production. The maximum biochar yield of 30% is obtained at the optimum process temperature, viz. 400°C for coconut shell, 300°C for groundnut shell and 350°C for casuarina and cotton stalk. As an energy conservation opportunity, the number of operational electric coils was reduced and biochar was produced at different temperatures with different rpm of auger to optimize the process conditions for better yield and quality of biochar. Biochar produced at 400°C with 4 rpm had better char yield (30%).