elsevier.com/locate/devec Regular article Does survey mode matter? Comparing in-person and phone agricultural surveys in India Ellen Anderson a, Travis J. Lybbert a, Ashish Shenoy a,∗, Rupika Singh b, Daniel Stein c a University of California, Davis, United States of America b India Climate Collaborative, India c IDinsight, United States of America A R T I C L E I N F O JEL classification: C83 O13 Q12 Keywords: Data collection Phone survey Survey mode Agriculture Measurement error A B S T R A C T Ubiquitous mobile phone ownership makes phone surveying an attractive method of low-cost data collection. We explore differences between in-person and phone survey measures of agricultural production collected for an impact evaluation in India. Phone responses have greater mean and variance, a difference that persists even within a subset of respondents that answered the same question over both modes. Treatment effect estimation remains stable across survey mode, but estimates are less precise when using phone data. These patterns are informative for cost and sample size considerations in study design and for aggregating evidence across study sites or time periods. 1. Introduction Household surveys are standard in economics research, especially in developing economies where administrative records and official statistics are likely to be incomplete due to high degrees of informal- ity (see Deaton, 2005). Traditional survey methods rely on face-to-face interviews with study participants, but the worldwide penetration of information and communication technology makes remote data collec- tion increasingly accessible. In particular, commoditization of mobile phones – an estimated 73% of adults globally and 58%–61% in de- veloping countries now own a mobile phone (ITU, 2022) – enables connectivity in even the most isolated parts of the world. In this paper, we investigate differences between in-person and phone survey data collected during an agricultural extension experi- ment in Bihar, India. Phone surveying presents an appealing alternative to in-person data collection because of potential cost savings. Inter- viewing study participants by phone mitigates the logistical difficulty of physically locating a desired respondent and minimizes enumerator transportation and lodging. However, phone contact can introduce new forms of attrition, and respondents may behave differently when not physically present with an interlocutor. Therefore, it is valuable to explore precisely how to interpret phone responses in relation to comparable in-person data. Our study leverages data from two parallel impact evaluations of the same underlying program. Evaluators asked a harmonized set of ∗Corresponding author. E-mail address: shenoy@ucdavis.edu (A. Shenoy). questions on agricultural production, with one team going door-to-door and the other calling by phone. Both surveys independently drew from the same sampling frame, and 42% of households participated in both surveys.