 To develop parameters for assessing qualitative and quantitative attributes in the QRT reports on the basis of score card. v. To develop parameters for evaluating the extent of utilization of research output by the end-users. - vi. To measure development outcomes for the QRT reports. vii. To provide feedback on the outcomes of the research programmes. viii. To bring out intermediate outputs and final outcomes of the investments made in quantifiable terms and the measures taken to ensure better value for money spent on research. ix. Any other item which the Committee feels important for improving the relevance of qualitative and quantitative aspects of the QRT reports. 24 Notes 

Results Framework Document for R F D Department Of Agricultural Research & Education (2011-2012) Section 1: Vision, Mission, Objectives and Functions (2011-2012) Results Framework Document (RFD) for Department Of Agricultural Research & Education Harnessing science to ensure comprehensive and sustained physical, economic and ecological access to food and livelihood security to all Indians, through generation, assessment, refinement and adoption of appropriate technologies. Mission Sustainability and growth of Indian agriculture by interfacing agricultural research, higher education and front-line extension initiatives complemented with institutional, infrastructural and policy support that will create efficient and effective science-harnessing tool. Objectives 1 Strengthening frontier research in identified areas / programs and quality seed production 2 Assessment, evaluation and conservation of plant, fish, microbes and animal genetic resources 3 Improving natural resource management and input use efficiency 4 Development of vaccines and disease diagnostics 5 Post harvest management / farm mechanization and value addition 6 IP management and commercialization of technologies 7 Strengthening of higher agricultural education 8 Strengthening of agricultural extension system and promoting gender issues Functions To plan, coordinate and monitor research for enhancing production and productivity of agriculture sector. 1 To assess implementation of various programmes in relation to target sets and provide mid-course correction. 2 To provide technological backstopping to various lines departments. 3 To develop Public-Private-Partnerships in developing seeds, planting materials, vaccines, feed formulations, value added products, agricultural machinery etc. 4 To serve as a repository in agriculture sector and develop linkages with national and international organizations as per the needs and current trends. 5 To enhance quality of higher education in agriculture sector. 6 Technology generation, commercialization and transfer to end users. 7 Human resource development and capacity building.