 Trenching along the hill-side wall smoothened to avoid puncturing of sheet. Molten bitumen was sprayed on the walls of the tank with the help of a metal container having numerous small holes in the side wall. For mud plastering, dry, chopped grass was mixed with dry soil in the ratio of 1:10. The mixture was saturated with water, and kneaded thoroughly to convert it into a soft plastic mud. Observations were recorded on general features of the area, initial characterization of the soil for texture, water retention, particle density, bulk density, infiltration rate, pH, organic C and available NPK, soil moisture (0-60 cm depth) in tree basins under different mulch treatments, water storage and seepage losses in different dug- out tanks, rainfall and potential evaporation of the area. The soil moisture was determined gravimetrically at periodic intervals under different treatments. Growth parameters like plant height, canopy circumference and the stem girth of apple trees and relative leaf-water content were monitored for 2004. Soil samples were collected at six locations in the orchard up to a depth of 60 cm at 15 cm depth increment. The six soil samples for each depth were thoroughly mixed and a composite sample was prepared. The composite soil samples were Cocopit mulch Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Fig. 6. Pebble mulch Fig. 7. Control (no mulch) analysed in duplicate for texture (International Pipette method), organic carbon (Dichromate oxidation method of Walkley and Black), available N (Alkaline permanganate method), Olsen's P, exchangeable K (Ammonium acetate method), pH (1:2.5 soil.water suspension) and particle density (Pycnometer method). Soil- moisture retention of disturbed soil samples (soil passed through 2 mm sieve) was determined at saturation, -30 and -1500 kPa water potential, using Pressure plate apparatus. Bulk density was determined using 3 cm long and 5.6 cm diameter metal cores, by taking soil core from the middle portion of each soil layer. Soil properties Chemical and physical properties of experimental soil as observed at the initiation and termination of the experiment are given in Tables 1 and 2. The experimental soil was acidic in reaction (Table 1). The organic carbon was medium in the top 45 cm depth, but low in 45-60 cm depth. The nutrient status was medium for available N, high for Olsen's P, and medium (0-15 cm depth) to low (15-60 cm depth) for exchangeable K. It requires applications of recommended doses of N and K; the dose of P may be reduced by 25% of the recommended one. The soil was gravelly and medium in texture. The bulk-density values indicated progressive increase in soil strength with depth, especially below 30 cm (Table 2). The average particle Table 1. Chemical properties of the experimental soil Soil depth pH Organic Available nutrients (cm) carbon (kg/ha) (%) N P K 0-15 5.8 0.84 492.2 44.1 167.9 15-30 5.9 0.68 477.2 39.3 112.0 30-45 5.9 0.