 of 15 Women Empowerment & Economic Development / 45 Mr Piyush Goyal, Minister of Power, Coal, New and Renewable Energy has announced that government's plans to invest Rs 75,000 erore (USS11.08 billion) in an energy-cfficient irrigation scheme over the next three to four years. The new erop insurance scheme for farmers Bhartiya Krishi Bima Yojana' aims to cover 50 per cent of the farmers under the scheme in the next two-three years, India and Lithuania have agreed to intensify agricultural coop- eration, especially in sectors like food and dairy processing. Gujarat Government has planned to connect 26 Agricultural Pro- duce Market Committees (APMCs) via electronic market plat- form, under the National Agriculture Market (NAM) initiative. The State Government of Telangana plans to spend Rs 81,000 crore (USS 11.88 billion) over the next three years to complete ongoing irrigation projects and also undertake two new projects for lifting water from the Godavari and Krishna river. The National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) announced 42 dairy projects with a financial outlay of Rs 221 crore (US$ 32.42 million) to boost milk output and increase per animal production of milk. CONCLUSION About 70% of women live in the rural areas, 60 to 80% carry on agricultural work and do about 44% of the work needed to feed the family. More women in developing countries do more of the planting, harvesting and processing. They produce and also prepare the food for their families, yet women farmers receive only 5% of extension services. They are under-represented in training programmes and only few of them are in agricultural research and policy making positions (Onyene and Bakare, 2009). Efforts and strategies to agricultural development are found to be more effective when they account for Women's needs (BETA, 2008). Onyene (1998) had noted that domestic strings tying women to house working status is to them a by the way factor. Gender disparity, which unfortunately still exists in agriculture, Is therefore ridiculous as women form the core of agriculture production and sales. To keep describing women's role in food productionas 46/ Women Empowerment & Economic Developmen. ation of secondary can only be a disservice and an implicit pernet.... female exploitation as they are directly involved in the farmiOn process of as well as in the post harvest management. REFERENCES Acharya, M. and L. Bennett. 1983. Women and the Subsistence Sectar Eco nomic Participation and Household Decisionmaking in Nepal. World Bank Alesina A. et al., 2012 On the Origins of Gender Roles:Women and the ugh. Staff Working Papers, Number 526. Amin H. et al.,2009 Participation Level of Rural Women Regarding Post Har vesting Activities in Pakistan, Pak. j. life soc. sci., 7(2): 136-139 Anonymous. Self Help Development International, Country Programme Ethio pia Ref: ET009051 Annual Report. 2004. 3 - 4 Arbucle T, Sever L. (1998) Pesticide Exposures and Fetal Death: A Review of 5.