 Instead, quan­ tifying the agricultural area subjected to burning more directly measures the amount of burned area and, subsequently, the residue that was burned. Previous studies that have estimated emissions at the national scale across India, however, have not accounted for actual burned area (BA), possibly because these data are not readily provided by census statistics. Recently, remote sensing has proved to be highly effective in detecting active fires and developing various BA products that can be used for CRB monitoring (Deshpande et al., 2022b; Jethva et al., 2019; Verma et al., 2019). There are several different approaches to doing this in the literature. For example, one can identify active fires associated with CRB using thermal anomaly products from Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) or Visible Infrared Imaging Radi­ ometer Suite (VIIRS). However, the accuracy of active fire estimates using these satellite data products is subject to considerable uncertainty as the products' coarse resolution (1 km) can overlook small fires and make it difficult to isolate BA that occurs only in agricultural fields (Jethva et al., 2019). A second approach is to derive actual estimates of BA using optical imagery, such as MODIS and Sentinel-2, which can be used to reduce uncertainties by more accurately estimating agricultural dry matter production. However, such data products are subject to spatial (MODIS: 500 m BA, VIIRS: 375 m BA) or temporal (Sentinel-2: 5- day repeat cycle) limitations (Deshpande et al., 2022b), potentially making it challenging to map BA accurately at scale. Finally, several inventories such as the Global Fire Emission Data­ base (GFED), Global Fire Assimilation System (GFAS), and the Fire In­ ventory from NCAR (FINNv1.5) provide approximations of dry matter burned (DMB) and emissions utilizing Fire Radiative Power (e.g., GFAS), BA (e.g., GFED), or a blend of both methods (e.g., FINNv1.5) (Van Der Werf et al., 2010). However, these inventories often underestimate the CRB from small and fragmented fires (see Deshpande et al., 2022a). A few existing studies examine the dynamics of crops and their residue as a primary driving factor of emissions calculations (Bhuvaneshwari et al., 2019; Ravindra et al., 2019; Sarkar et al., 2018). Yet, understanding the effect of multi-crop systems and regional cropping patterns on whether fields are burned can give compelling insights for the effective imple­ mentation of potential mitigation policies. To date, only a few studies have explored regional relationships between cultivation patterns and CRB, which could be important for planning targeted technology in­ terventions and mitigation strategies (Deshpande et al., 2022a).