 The last sec- tion concludes and offers policy implications. 2. Farm Science Centers in India The Farm Science Centers (known as KVK) model was launched by the Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) in 1974 in the Pondicherry district of India to provide institutional support to agricultural and allied sectors in assessing location-speciﬁc tech- nologies through assessment, reﬁnement, and demonstration tri- als. The KVK model links the national agriculture research system with an extension system and smallholders. KVKs are wholly ﬁnanced by the council and serve state agricultural universities, council institutes, government departments, and non- governmental organizations working in the agriculture sector. KVKs are unique in that they rely on scientists to deliver agricul- tural advisory services. KVKs operate in all 725 districts of India.4 Today Uttar Pradesh has 83 KVKs in operation across its 75 districts. Appendix Fig. A1 presents the distribution of KVKs by state in India. The Government of India mandates that KVKs provide several speciﬁc services, including (a) conducting ‘‘on-farm testing” for the assessment of agricultural technologies across different farm- ing systems; (b) carrying out frontline demonstrations to demon- strate the implementation of frontier technologies; (c) working to increase the capacity of farmers and extension workers by cre- ating awareness of frontier technologies; (d) serving as a knowl- edge and resource center for the agricultural economy in each district; and (e) advising farmers on various subjects related to production agriculture. Amid changing technology and agricultural scenarios, KVKs’ activities have been extended to include diffusing technology, empowering women, and increasing awareness of gov- ernment agricultural schemes. Moreover, KVKs produce technolog- ical products such as seeds, planting material, bio-agents, and irrigation systems. KVKs’ total budget in India was about 6.9 billion Indian rupees (INR) in 2016–17. This is equivalent to INR 34 per hectare, a relatively minuscule investment in the frontline exten- sion system.5 A recent study by Gulati, Sharma, Samantra, and Terway (2018) showed that India spends about 0.70 % of its agricul- tural gross domestic product on agricultural research, education, extension, and training. About 0.54 % of the budget was spent on agricultural research and education, and 0.16 % was spent on exten- sion and training programs. 3. Data 3.1. Survey and study area The survey was conducted in Uttar Pradesh, a northern state of India. Uttar Pradesh is the most populous state, home to more than 200 million people and accounting for 17 % of the country’s popu- lation. The geographical area of Uttar Pradesh is about 24.1 million hectares, or 7 % of India’s total area. About 16.5 million hectares (68 %) are under crop cultivation. The gross cropped area in Uttar Pradesh is about 25.9 million hectares.