 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 556 Control of ectoparasites in animals by a mixture oipati {Artemisia nilagirica) leaves and common salt in animals Volume 2, page 398 Pati Hindi: dona, majpatri, nagdona; Kannada: manjepatre; Malayalam: tirunitripacha; Marathi: dhordavana; Oriya: dayona, gondhomaro, nagodoyana; Sanskrit: barha, nagadamani; Tamil: machipattar, tirunirpachai; Telugu: davanamu, machipathri. Indian wormwood Artemisia nilagirica (C. B. Clarke) Pamp. The herb is considered to be emmenagogue, anthemintic and stomachic. The plant is also used as a febrifuge and as an inferior substitute for cincona in fevers. A weak decoction is given to children suffering from measles. Externally, it is used in fomentation given in skin diseases and ulcers. An infusion of the leaves and flowering tops is administered in nervous and spasmodic affections and Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Geographical indications asthma. The leaves are applied as haemostatic and to allay the burning sensation in conjuctivitis. The roots are used as tonic and antiseptic. The ashes are used as manure, and the compost prepared from this species is useful in controlling grubs of beetles. The plant is also employed to keep away fleas and other insects. A tall, aromatic, pubescent or villous shrub-like herb, found throughout the hilly regions of India, ascending to an altitude of 3,600 m in the western Himalayas and to 1,500- 2,400 m in Sikkim and Khasi hills; it is also found in Mount Abu in Rajasthan, in the western ghats and from Konkan southwards to Kerala. Leaves large, ovate, lobed, laciniate or 1-2 pinnatipartite; flower heads small, ovoid or globose in panicled racemes. Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 818 Treatment of skin disease in animals Volume 2, page 398 Neem Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 542 Use of belladonna (dolu) for external application on wounds Volume 2, page 405 Belladonna (dolu) Refer to ITK Code No. 1948 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 553 Treatment of worm-infested wounds in animals by bajar- bhang (Physochlaina praealta) Volume 2, page 405 Bajar-bhang Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Name in Indian languages Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Hindi: bajar-bang. Physochlaina praelta (G Don). Miers The leaves of the plant are narcotic and possess properties causing dilatation of the pupil of the eye, as belladonna. The leaves are also said to be poisonous, the head and throat are affected when they are eaten and the mouth swells when touched by leaves. The leaves are applied to boils. Seeds are used by local people as vermifuge to expel roundworms, and as an emetic in bilious attack.