 Agronomists are tasked with developing production technologies to manage lodging at higher yield levels. To overcome this problem, a multi- location experiment was conducted to maximize wheat yield with a target of 8 t/ha. The experiment involved using higher levels of inorganic and organic fertilizers, along with the application of a growth retardant to control lodging. The experiment consisted of two nutrient management treatments: the recommended doses of fertilizers (RDF) and 150% RDF + 15 tonnes of farmyard manure (FYM)/ha + two sprays of chlormequat chloride (0.2%) + tebuconazole (0.1%) of the commercial product dose at the first node and flag leaf stage. Six different centres were selected for the experiment, and high-yielding wheat genotypes were tested across three replications. Sowing took place during the last week of October, using a normal seed rate of 100 kg/ha. Early sowing was chosen to provide sufficient time for grain filling and to avoid the negative effects of hot winds during this period. Irrigation and weed control were implemented according to recommended practices. The application of 150% RDF, along with 15 t/ha of FYM and two sprays of growth retardants, resulted in significant increases in biomass (7.02%), grain yield (10.85%), earheads/m2 (10.9%), and grains per earhead (5.59%), with minimal lodging. The growth retardants had a dual effect of reducing plant Lodging in wheat at the grain filling stage in Kunjpura village due to excessive use of nitrogen Effect of sowing time on wheat yield 54.5 55 55.5 56 56.5 End of october 1–15 November Beyond 15 November Grain yield (q/ha) Sowing time Effect of sowing time on wheat yield Indian Farming 39 September 2023 height and promoting tillering, leading to additional grains on each earhead. Although there was a slight decrease in 1000-grain weight and plant height, the overall results demonstrated the effectiveness of using growth retardants in controlling lodging while increasing yield potential. Replacing RDF with 150% RDF + 15 t/ha FYM + growth retardants further increased biomass, grain yield, earheads/m2, and grains per earhead, while slightly reducing 1000-grain weight and plant height. This indicates that integrated management of fertilizers and the use of growth retardants can effectively control lodging in high- yield potential wheat varieties. Do’s • Farmers must sow wheat at the proper time, any delay in sowing causes yield penalty. Early sowing can increase grain yield by applying 150% of RDF and 15-tonne FYM/ha and two sprays of 0.2% CCC + 0.1% tebuconazole at the first node and flag leaf stage. • With the widespread availability of LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) in the country, the reliance on dung cakes as a fuel source has significantly decreased. As a result, farmyard manure (FYM) can now be made more readily available for application to wheat crops before sowing, leading to increased yields and income.