 Buckwheat Optimum time of sowing is September-October for high altitude areas of Tawang, West Kameng and Lower Subansiri districts as relay crop after maize and October-Mid November for low altitude areas like Dibang and Lohit valleys. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 250 Seed rate is 20 kg/ha and spacing of 30 cm between rows is recommended. Foxtail millet Optimum time of sowing is middle of January to middle of February (the best time is last week of January). Seed rate is 8-10 kg/ha, which may be increased to 15 kg/ha under broadcast sowing. Spacing should be 25 cm between rows. Horticultural Crops Nursery Preparation for winter vegetables Nursery should be prepared for the crops like Brinjal, Chilli, Broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower, knolkhol etc. Site: Nursery area should be well fenced to protect it from pet and wild animals. The area should be near the water source. The area should be free from waterlogging. Nursery should be situated near the main field for transplanting. Nursery area should receive sunlight right from south-west aspect is most suitable. Proper drainage must be provided. Raising of seedling require fertile and healthy soil. The soil should be loam to sandy loam. Soil should have good organic matter and aerated. Soil texture should be neither too coarse nor too fine. Soil pH should be of 6 to 7 approx. Soil should normally be rich in all essential nutrient elements. Soil Preparation: It needs a deep cultivation of the nursery land either by soil turning plough or by spade and subsequent 2-3 hoeing to get a fine tilth. Mix 2 Kg well rotten and farmyard manure\ compost or leaf compost or 500g vermicompost per square meter and mix in the soil. If the soil is heavy mix2-3 kg sand per square meter so that the seed emergence may not be hampered. Soil Treatment: For raising the healthy seedlings, soil must be treated to make it pathogen and pest free. We can use soil solarization methods or formalin solution. This should be done 10- 15 days before seed sowing. Prepare formalin solution (1.5 to 2%) ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 251 in one container and drench the soil @ 4-5 litre of water per square meter soil surface to saturate it up to depth of 15-20cm. Cover the drench area with polythene sheet. Hot steam can be used to treat the soil against harmful insect pest. Soil treatment using Captan or Thiram which kill the soil borne pathogens. Bed preparation: Beds should be prepared according to the season and the crop. The breadth of the beds should be not more than 1.00 m. The beds should be 15-20 cm raised from the ground surface. The standard size of nursery bed is 3m × 1m ×15 cm. A space between beds should be 30-45 cm. Add 20-25 kg well rotten farmyard manure in each standard size nursery bed. The number of nursery beds depends on the crop, season and growing area for transplanting.