4 Case Study III: Realizing Philosophy of Gram Swaraj through Sustainable Agrobiodiversity Conservation Sustainability was the key to all actions of Gandhiji. In fact, ICAR-NBPGR also aims at the sustainability of Indian agriculture through PGR conservation for posterity. Over 0.44 million plant germplasm accessions are conserved in its National Genebank. Gandhiji’s vision of rural India was self-sustainability in villages where every basic need is met locally and the ecosystem is kept in equilibrium. It is towards this goal that the TSP program of ICAR-NBPGR aims to achieve the nutritional self-sufficiency of vulnerable communities. ICAR-NBPGR has been empowering vulnerable tribal communities through training and inputs in achieving nutritional self-sufficiency. Distribution of seeds of locally adapted landraces of vegetables and fruit trees along with minor agricultural implements and other inputs were taken up by all the ten regional stations and Headquarters. We envisage this Gandhian philosophy in custodian farmer led on- farm conservation programs where species diversity in general and genetic diversity of crops in specific are conserved on the farm. Under the Scheduled Caste Sub-plan (SCSP) program, ICAR-NBPGR has been able to reach many scheduled caste (SC) families across the country with agro-biodiversity conservation interventions. In Kannapuram village of Kannur, Kerala a heritage site has been identified wherein 25 km2 area, over 200 unique mango trees have been located, out which 68 trees were collected as scions and established in the clonal repository. 71 This will be rehabilitated in SC homesteads in and around the original collection site. The Mahatma believed that India’s soul lives in its villages. The ICAR-NBPGR envisages a decentralized on-farm conservation approach through SCSP, Tribal Sub-plan (TSP), and GEF programs to make rural livelihoods secure and working out a balance of conservation with sustainable use (Case study II). He also suggested the necessity to find out simplest and inexpensive foods that would enable villagers to recover their health. In this regard, ICAR-NBPGR has documented over 1000 wild edible species with >30 highly potential species. Some potential species identified are Allium tuberosum, Herpetospermum operculatum, Plukenetia corniculata (as leafy vegetable), Tupistra clarkei (inflorescence as vegetable), Garcinia speciosa (as fruit), etc. Potential new vegetable crops identified from the wild, like bitterless gourd (Momordica subangulata subsp. renigera) has been getting popularised in South India as a high-value vegetable. Additionally, ICAR-NBPGR has contributed to the identification of useful trees for vulnerable coastal ecosystems by carefully observing the Andaman and Nicobar littoral forests. We could establish a field genebank for over 75 perennial crop wild relatives of horticultural crops and forestry species at Thrissur Station.