 students, farmers, industry, and government. The apparent appeal and synergy of our proposed model stem from the appraisal of strengths and weaknesses of existing educational systems across SAUs. We connected and identified the contributing forces for the substantial success of the existing system mainly driven by a fair amount of Structural and Functional Autonomy enjoyed by 40 SAUs, generous financial support by the government and an effective monitoring system within institutions through statutory bodies that link its functioning with all stakeholders including the government. We identified major bottlenecks in existing content and its delivery mechanism. The existing curriculum for agricultural and allied sectors for undergraduate and PG degree programmes warrants a complete overhauling as the challenges, priorities and opportunities for Indian Agriculture are different now than what they were a few years back. New Education Policy 2020 has made it mandatory for all educational institutions to revamp the present educational system and develop the pedagogy and curriculum in such a way that accommodates high flexibility for the students to tailor their degree programmes most conveniently. It gave the student several options to choose the courses according to their needs, choices and professional requirements and stimulate and nurture the individual capabilities and faculties of the students in the best possible manner and enabling ecosystem. The working model encompasses the modalities on: 1. A flexible curriculum with the concept of cafeteria courses both online and offline for wider choices for the students. 2. Structured mechanism for multiple entry and exit (MEE) options with each year comprising of a complete module with defined skill sets. 3. Certificate and Diploma in agriculture focusing on skills and vocational training to empower and enable the students to start their entrepreneurship ventures. certificate and the Diploma in Agriculture. 6. Skill-based courses and courses with the entrepreneurial potential to be streamed during 1st and 2nd year of the graduate programmes in place of fundamental type of courses. 7. Hard core science-based and advanced type courses to be aligned during the 3rd and the 4th year of the programmes. The key features of this model are as under: A. Foundation programme It is an innovative immersion programme designed to integrate multiple stream students at the beginning of admission and aims at instilling life skills, identifying diverse potentialities and creating a platform for students to learn from each other’s life experiences. It will comprise sessions from alumni, business leaders, outstanding achievers in diverse fields and people with inspiring life experiences. During the programme, the students will also know about the operational framework of the academic process in the university, the challenges of being a science student and the opportunities that they can explore in life. B.