 These digital tools include are described in detailed below. Mobile phone based platforms Mobile based advisory service: To cater to the demand of farming community for credible time bound crop specific information and advisories regarding pulse crops, mobile phones based information delivery platform was developed and validated. Voice based mobile advisory service ‛Dalhan Sandesh’ has been initiated wherein farmers are directly linked to farmers through validated voice advisories on production technologies of chickpea, field pea, pigeon pea and mung bean pulse crops. Need based crop specific real time advisories were provided to 3500 farmers from 7 districts i.e., Jalaun, Fatehpur, Chitrakoot, Hamirpur, Kanpur dehat, Balia, Kanpur nagar districts of Uttar Pradesh. More than 2.0 lakh advisories were sent on pulse crops through the service to partner farmers. Dalhan Sandesh Service Chanamitra: Chanamitra is an android based mobile application designed as an effective and efficient channel for information delivery on improved production technology of chickpea to chickpea growers spread across the country. The application is developed in five languages namely Hindi, English, Marathi, Telegu and Kannada for covering the prominent chickpea producing states of the country. The application provides comprehensive information related to area specific improved chickpea varieties, crop production technologies, crop protection technologies for management of insect pest and diseases, post-harvest technologies as well as information related to market price and weather, which can be easily accessed for farmers and other stakeholders for making informed decisions. The images based disease information and weed management system is also incorporated in the application. The application also functions as channel for flow of information between the farmers and pulse researchers which can be used by chickpea farmers for receiving solutions to the specific problems faced by them, right from the fields. The queries can be made in video, voice or text format. The unique feature of the app is that it is backed by a strong team of chickpea researchers working across the country for providing solutions to the queries made and related up dates. The application has offline information panel along with online panel for better functionality. Web based initiatives Web portal: “e dalhan gyan manch” is a interactive, dynamic and user friendly bilingual web portal (http://www.dalhangyanmanch. Chanamitra application e-dalhan gyan manch website Indian Farming 17 February 2024 res.in/) designed to share and popularize the available on-shelf technologies of major pulse crops with farmer, extension workers and other stakeholders. The developed portal contains useful validated information on all the major pulse crops including chickpea, pigeon pea, field pea, urd bean, mung bean, rajmas and lentil.