 Keywords: afara, animal, red chilli, wheat bran, smoke About 250 g guma grass is fed orally to the infected animal twice daily. Cattle owners of village Kamua Kala in district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh follow this practice to cure afara. Keywords: guma grass, afara People of villages Khirka, Khata and Rajupur of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh follow this ITK to cure afara in animals. After death of human beings burnt bones are collected and a powder is prepared. This powder is mixed with water and given to the affected animal twice daily to cure afara. Keywords: afara, human bone Cattle owners of village Rajpuri of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh make paste of asafoetida, onion, garlic and ajwain (50 g each), and given to the affected animals. Keywords: afara, onion, garlic, asafoetida Paste of guma (100 g) is prepared and is applied to the affected animal twice a day. Cattle owners of village Nawada (Ban) of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh follow this practice to cure afara. Keywords: guma, afara Shri Surendra Pal, S/o Shri Tek Chand, Kharia, Auodh, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Chote Lai, S/o Shri Than Singh, Kamua Kala. dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Krishna Pal, S/o Shri Tika Ram, Kharia, Auodh, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh); Shri Kashi Ram S/o Shri Payre Lai, Khata.dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh); and Shri Nanhe Lai, S/o Shivcharan Lai, Rajupur, Devchara, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Rajpal, S/o Shri Laturi Singh, Rajpuri (Nawada), dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Sawaraj Singh, S/o Shri Sunder Lai, Nawada (Ban), dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3099 Treatment of qfara in animals with jute water 3100 Use of nari (Commelina benghalensis) for curing afara in animals About 500 g jute is immersed in water and this water is given to the animal, twice daily. Farmers of village Gotia (Larpur) of district Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) control afara with this practice. Keywords: afara, jute water A paste of 250 g nari leaves is prepared and given as supplement to the animal affected twice daily, which cures afara. Farmers of village Rajpuri (Nawada) of district Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) control afara with this practice. Keywords: afara, nari Shri Surendra Pal, S/o Shri Liladhar, Gotia (Larpur), dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Brij Lai, S/o Shri Kare Ram and Shri Tarachand, S/o Shri Narayan Singh, Rajpuri (Nawada), dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) 3101 Treatment for bloat in animals by using leaves of Adathoda vasica 3102 Use of pods of Cassia to cure bloat in animals About 50% people of the village in district Bharuch of Gujarat are using this practice. In this ITK, about 200 g leaves of Adathoda vasica are crushed and soaked in 300 g water. This mixture is then filtered and given to the affected animal orally.