 Partnership and linkages: A Declaration of Intent (DoI) was signed between the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of the State of Israel and the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare of the Republic of India for Cooperation in the field of agriculture. Delegations from Germany, UAE, Seychelles, Suriname, Republic of Namibia, Thailand, Norway met the ICAR authorities to discuss issues of mutual interest. Centres. Syllabi were developed for the M.Sc. courses of Afghan National Agricultural Sciences and Technology University (ANASTU). Similarly, revision of Course Curriculum for Post Graduate students of Yezin Agricultural University (YAU), was completed. India is now one of the voting members in the CGIAR System Council. Additional Secretary (DARE) & Secretary (ICAR) is the official member in the CGIAR System Council from India. AgrInnovate India Limited has earned net profit of ` 21,052,092 in 2016-17 as against net profit of ` 24,670,104 in Financial Year 2015-16. The Board has approved the Guidelines for commercialization of technologies developed under ICAR and institutions under National Agricultural Research System (NARS) for implementation by the Company. Supporting basic and strategic research: The National Agricultural Science Fund (NASF) with an outlay of ` 164.5 crore from 2017-18 to 2019-20, has funded 145 projects, out of which 64 are on-going projects and 61 are multi-institutional. The NASF approved 32 projects and remaining proposals are in the process of being evaluated. The workshop on Transgenic Chickpea and Pigeon Pea - Way Forward, recommended that all the Cry 1 Ac events across centres need to be evaluated at IIPR, Kanpur. The transgenic rice plants tolerated up to 6× dosage of glyphosate without any visible harm to the transgenic plants, whereas the control plants dried and died at the recommended dose of glyphosate. 1-hydroxy-3-methyl anthraquinone (IH3MAQ) demonstrated reduction in fungal growth in comparison to the other analogs. Significant positive effects of elevated CO2 and temperature on plant growth parameters, pod attributes and grain yield were observed in soybean-wheat cropping system. Interaction of eCO2 and N can be exploited in modulating the EPS producing bacterial population, thereby affecting the total EPS/ soil carbohydrate, which will alleviate soil moisture deficit stress. Biochemical and endocrine parameters revealed that high serum free fatty acids and low leptin levels are concerted negative energy balance (NEB) indicators in buffaloes. On the basis of these parameters, NEB was found to be confined to 1-1.5 months of postpartum in buffaloes. Strengthening the research system: The ASRB recommended 15 applicants on lateral entry basis, comprising eight Directors, two Project Coordinators and five Head of Divisions, during the period. Recruitment process was deferred due to the proposed revision of score card for direct recruitment.