 Such findings highlight the need for promoting the uptake of CSA practices in the state to ensure enhanced productivity, sustainable growth, and food security. To realize the goals of enhanced productivity, sustainability, and mitigation while recognizing the in­ equities that exist in farmers’ access to resources, it is important to reassess the barriers that have hindered adoption thus far and generate evidence across various contexts. Thus, a thorough understanding of farmers’ gendered needs and preferences, as well as their opportunities and constraints, is critical. The primary data collected in Gujarat delves deeper into understanding the nature of livelihood activities of men and women farmers; how they perceive climate change and its impact on their lives; their adaptation strategies, both on- and off-farm, to cope with climatic stress; and their access to resources or assets for adapting to climate change, emphasizing the importance of access to extension and information. The qualitative study was carried out in nine districts of Gujarat namely, Ahmedabad, Anand, Arvalli, Chhota Udaipur, Gandhinagar, Kutch, Mehsana, Patan, and Surendranagar. These districts were selected in consultation with SEWA3 officials to capture a representative sample. Gujarat is categorized into eight agroclimatic zones; these nine districts covered five zones characterized by arid to semi-arid climate. The primary data for this study were collected from late 2019 to early 2020 using focus group discussions (FGDs), useful for gathering rich insights on a particular topic (or a few related topics) with people from similar backgrounds and experiences. Each of the nine district fa­ cilitators (one per district) and survey firm staff were trained by the researchers and an external qualitative research expert on the ethics of conducting FGDs, sampling process, and various topics covered in the tools. Women’s FGDs were led by women facilitators and men’s FGDs by men facilitators to ensure that participants felt comfortable sharing their thoughts on gender-related aspects. Facilitators encouraged all partici­ pants to express their views and controlled for bias from dominant participants. The FGD tool had five sections: background information, consent, and introduction; livelihood activities of men and women; indicators of climate change and adaptive strategies; information sources used for agricultural and livelihood activities; and miscellaneous questions. The tool was designed by the researchers, keeping in mind Gujarat’s unique climatic, cultural, and social context, and finalized in consultation with our partner SEWA. A total of 245 men and women farmers participated in 22 FGDs. All women respondents were members of SEWA and were selected pur­ posely (based on caste, type of crop grown, and self-help group (SHG) affiliation) from the SEWA membership lists for 72 villages spread across the nine districts, covering various dairy, food, and cash crop farmers.