 Plakton growth It is well known that the structure and biomass of planktonic organisms (both phytoplankton and zooplankton) govern the quality of an aquatic ecosystem. Phytoplankton biomass itself indicates the productivity of a water body (Table 10). In the present outdoor investigation, maximum plankton abundance (both phytoplankton and zooplankton) was recorded in T1, on 30th day (D30) (505-678/litre). The lowest plankton abundance was recorded in control (T0) (478-554/litre). It was low in day 0 in all the treatments and gradually increased as the experiment advanced. Similarly the zooplankton abundance was more on day '0' and gradually decreased as the experiment advanced. The plankton variation is directly reflected in the primary production of the water bodies. It was found that the plankton abundance in lime treatments (T4) and in different concentrations of banana pseudostem juice treatments (T1 , T2, T3) is similar and higher than that of control (T0), due to good water quality and availability of nutrients. A remarkable variation in species composition of plankton (both zooplankton and phytoplankton) was recorded during the period of study. In most of the cases the Chlorophyceae group phytoplankton and Rotifer group of zooplankton were the dominant groups in all the treatments. Growth, survival and production parameters Growth, survival and production offish (IMC) in a culture system depends on several factors such as water-quality parameters, stocking density, feeding, pond management etc. In the present study growth, survival and production of fish varied in different treatments due to adoption of different methods for water treatments, i.e., lime and juice of banana pseudostem. Data on average weight of fish in different treatments reveled that growth of fish was fastest in T4 followed by T3, T2, T1, and TQ (Table 11a). Higher growth rate in treatments other than that of control indicated that juice of banana pseudostem as well as lime improved the growth. Best growth under lime treatment (T4) might be due to higher pH value, high alkalinity, high calcium, low turbidity, higher plankton production etc. Banana pseudostem-juice treatments (T1, T2, T3) also resulted in comparatively better growth of fish due to these favourable water parameters. In indoor experiment, survival rate of mrigal fry was 100%, 90%, 90%, 90% and 80% in T1, T4, T2, T3 and T. respectively. The highest survival (%) achieved in T indicated that water quality of aquarium after treatment of juice of banana pseudostem @ 0.5 ml/litre were most suitable for fish growth (Table l1b). Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Table 10. Variation in different groups of phytoplankton and zooplankton abundance (No. of species/litre) measured monthly for outdoor experiment Fish-production rates achieved under this experiment were 28.93 g/m2, 24.2 g/m2, 23.72 g/ m2,21.9 g/m2 and 16.