 ICAR developed first Model Act in 1966 to provide legal base for establishment, functioning and uniformity of agricultural universities across AUs. The ICAR through its Agricultural Education Division strives for maintaining and upgrading quality and relevance of higher agricultural education through partnership and efforts of the ICAR-Agricultural Universities (AUs) system. Hence, the quality assurance of higher agricultural education was given the major thrust through policy support, accreditation, academic regulation, personnel policies, review of course curricula and delivery systems, development support for strengthening and creating infrastructure, improvement of faculty competence and admissions through All India competitions. In 1973, ICAR went through another major re-organisation. The new Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) was created under Ministry of Agriculture to provide ICAR required linkages to deal directly with central and state governments as well as international organizations. Student READY: Introduced in V Deans Committee report Hon’ble Prime Minister launched the Student READY (Rural Entrepreneurship Awareness Development Yojana) in 2015 for the development of agri- entrepreneurs. This has been introduced in the UG programme in all the disciplines of agricultural and allied sciences as approved in Fifth Deans’ Committee. It is one complete year activity integrated with the last year of the UG programme of Agriculture, Agriculture Engineering, Biotechnology, Community Science (earlier Home Science), Dairy Technology, Food Technology, Forestry, Fisheries, In 1966 ICAR was reorganized and a full-fledged Division of Agricultural Education was established to coordinate and support the development of Agricultural Universities 12 Horticulture and Sericulture. It aims developing young agri- preneurs for emerging knowledge intensive agriculture. Implementation of National Education Policy in Agricultural Universities The New Education Policy 2020 of India was rolled out on 29 July 2021. NEP 2020 provisioned that “the design of agricultural education will have to be strengthened towards developing professionals with the ability to understand and use local knowledge, traditional knowledge and emerging technologies, while being cognizant of critical issues of declining profitability and/ or productivity but enhanced economic aspirations of farmers, climate change, food sufficiency, etc.” Based on the principles and philosophy of NEP 2020, a roadmap and Implementation Strategy for NEP 2020 in Agricultural Education System has been prepared and released on 28 September 2021 during the Annual Vice Chancellors Conference in New Delhi (ICAR 2021). ICAR has been given the responsibility of Professional Standard Setting Body (PSSB) for the Agriculture Education. To align the vision and mandates of the NEP-2020 the higher agricultural education aims to: 1. Increase enrolment of students to higher agricultural education.