 Complete dose of Potash and phosphorous should be given at the Time of basin preparation along with FYM during December- January. During winters (November- December), expose the root system of infected trees and cut the infected portion and apply Bordeaux paint / chaubatia paste for the control of White root rot. Apply a mixture of lime + copper sulphate + linseed oil (30kg lime+ 500 gm copper sulphate + 500 ml linseed oil in 100 L water) on stems upto a height of 2-3 ft from the ground level during October- November for protection against sun burning. Spray Horticulture Mineral Oil (2%) (20ml/L water) for the control of sanjose scale at green tip stage of apple bud. Drench with Chlorpyriphos 20 EC (4ml/L water) in collar region during October-November using at least 5 L of pesticide emulsion ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 80 per tree in collar region for the control of woolly apple aphid. Spray with Chlorpyriphos 20 EC (2ml/L water) or quinalphos 25 EC (2ml/L water) in September- October to check aerial population of woolly apple aphid. For the management of scab/ powdery mildew give a spray of dodine (1gm/L water) or fluxapyroxad + difenconazole (30ml/100 L water) at green tip stage. Peach Recommended varieties for Plain, Bhawar and Trai area Partap, Early grand, Floridasum, Floridaprince, Floridared, Floridagold, Sarbati, Sarbatisurka, Pant peach 3. Recommended varieties for lower hilly areas are Red june, Paradelux, Totapari, Safeda, early white jaint, Alekzendar, Red gold, Sun heaven, Snow queen. Plum Varieties for Plain, Bhawar and Trai areas are SatlajpurpIe, Kalaamratsari, Aloochapurple, Tetro, Kabuli greengang. Recommended varieties for lower hilly areas are Centarosa, Beauty, Redbute, Frontier, Maripoza. Varieties for hill areas are Sweet early, Methle, Celse, Elephantthard, Maripoza. Apricot Recommended varieties for lower hilly areas are Newkesar, Harko t, Earlysikle, Kesa, Naeeth, Safeda, Charm agi, Sakarpara. Varieties for hill areas are Kesa, Nageth, Safeda, Charrnagi, Sakarpura. Almond Recommended varieties for lower hilly areas are Drek, Ne-plus- altra, pearless ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 81 Varieties for hill areas Marsid, Nanperil, IXL, Ne-plus-altra, Texas Fish and Pond Maintenance during Winter Season Fish, being a cold-blooded aquatic animal, needs special care during winters. As temperature of the surface water is colder than the bottom layers, the fish prefers to live in the bottom zone. Famers shall keep the water depth up to 6 feet, so that it gets enough space for hibernating in the warmer bottom zone. In shallow waters, the whole water column becomes cold, which affects the fish and can prove fatal. As day length and light intensity also decreases during winters, oxygen levels decline in ponds due to reduced photosynthetic activity. The situation further aggravates during continuous cloudy days.