 Organic Spice and Plantation Crop Production Technology Importance, principles, perspective, concept and component of organic production of spice and plantation crops; organic production of spice crops and plantation crops, viz. Pepper, cardamom, turmeric, ginger, cumin, vanilla, coconut, coffee, cocoa, tea, arecanut; managing soil fertility, pests and diseases and weed problems in organic farming system; crop rotation in organic horticulture; processing and quality control for organic foods; methods for enhancing soil fertility, mulching, raising green manure crops. Indigenous methods of compost, panchagavya, biodynamics, preparation etc.; pest and disease management in organic farming; ITK’s in organic farming. Role of botanicals and bio-control agents; GAP and GMP- certification of organic products; organic production and export - opportunity and challenges. 47 05 VETERINARY AND ANIMAL SCIENCES-I 5.1 ANIMAL GENETICS & BREEDING Unit 1 : Overview of Genetics History and development of genetics. Classic researches and pioneer scientists in genetics. Mendalism and its deviations. Chromosomes and heredity. Sex in relation to chromosomes and genes. Linkage and crossing over. Artificial transmutation of genes. Penetrance and expressivity. Multiple factor inheritance. Gene modifiers. Non-chromosomal genes and their inheritance, Chromosomal aberrations. Mosaicism and chimerism. Unit 2 : Advanced Genetics Fine structure of chromosomes and chromosomal banding. Gene and mechanism of gene action. DNA replication. Central dogma. Protein synthesis. Genetic code and DNA cloning. Recombinant DNA technology. PCR. Gene banks. Split gene. Genetic control of hormone coordination, metabolism and metabolic diseases. Use of biotechnological tools in improving animal productivity. Application of immunogenetics. Biochemical polymorphism. Chromosomal studies in livestock improvement programmes. Development of clones in relation to animal productivity and maintaining biodiversity. Production of transgenic animals. Gene mixing for useful functions. Unit 3 : Overview of Breeding Brief history of domestication of livestock. Important breeds of livestock & poultry with special reference to economic characters. Evolution of genetic systems. Isolating mechanisms and origin of species / sub-species, their adaptation. Mating systems for different livestock and poultry. Genetic and phenotypic consequences and applications of inbreeding and out-breeding. Genetic basis of heterosis and its use. Diallele and polyallele crossing. Reciprocal and reciprocal-recurrent-selection. Combining ability. Developments in population and production of livestock and poultry in India. Status of Animal Genetic Resources in India. Unit 4 : Genetic Properties of Population Population Vs individual. Inheritance and continuity of population. Effective population size. Biodiversity. Description of animal population. Value and means; Average effect of gene and gene substitution.