 The facility named as Nanaji Deshmukh Plant Double herbicide tolerant transgenic rice for weed management: Two mutated EPSPS and ALS were cloned to a single plant transformation vector and simultaneously transformed into rice and the transgenic lines showed significant tolerance to glyphosate and sulfonylurea without any yield penalty for the agronomic traits. The transgenic lines expressing double amino acids mutants were evaluated for different doses of herbicide (glyphosate). The transgenic plants tolerated up to 6X dosage of glyphosate without any visible harm to the transgenic Phenomics Facility was inaugurated by the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India on 11 October 2017. The facility consists of hi-tech climate controlled greenhouses, moving field for handling of 1,200 plants within the greenhouse and to transport them to imaging stations, different imaging platforms, viz., IR Thermal, Chlorophyll fluorescence, Visual RGB, NIR root, NIR shoot, VNIR Hyper spectral, SWIR Hyperspectral sensors for assessing drought and input use efficiency. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 142 SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 143 plants whereas the control plants dried and died at the recommended dose of glyphosate. Development of transgenic pigeon pea and chickpea: A total of 597 T0 plants for pigeon pea and 393 T0 plants of chickpea were established. Based on the molecular and insect bioassay, five events of chickpea and five events of pigeon pea were selected. The selected events are under ‘Event Selection Trial’ at the IIPR, Kanpur. Seed viability in soybean: Testing of seed coat permeability and viability was done in the seeds of 100 RILs that were stored for 3 years in ambient conditions. Seed coat permeability ranged from 0 to 100%, and viability ranged from 0 to 83%. At least 3 seed storability QTL from each linkage group C1, L and F were analyzed. qRGR-F harbored 48 genes of which 3 contained non-synonymous mutations. Out of these 3 genes, one is involved in mucilage biosynthesis and the other 2 genes encode uncharacterized protein. Molecular mechanism of Induction of biotic stress tolerance by Trichoderma spp. in castor: Early events of colonization of castor roots by Trichoderma had established that the fungus entered roots through the intercellular spaces and colonized in the apoplastic region of the roots. It had been demonstrated that1- hydroxy-3-methyl anthraquinone (IH3MAQ), present only in the secretome of P+T (Plant + Trichoderma) treatment but not in either P or T treatments, was found as a candidate elicitor triggering the ISR in castor. To study the ability of 1H3MAQ and its analogs to ISR in a fungal free system, 1H3MAQ and six analog derivatives were synthesized chemically. These were confirmed with spectral readings and properties.