 Faculties and colleges will develop a large Cafeteria of Courses to accommodate optional Choice based components comprising of: yy Subject Domain courses on electives yy Vocational modules on skill development yy Courses on leadership, communication, culture and Indian languages yy Courses on creative and critical thinking, innovation skills, Higher order skills, Data science, artificial intelligence, Precision farming, Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, Nanotechnology, etc. yy Online Courses on a variety of subjects as additional optional courses yy Additional non-credit courses audited by the students to hone the special skills will be developed or identified by the Faculties or the online sources. All these courses can be developed by the Dean’s Committee to have uniformity across course numbers, titles and contents in all the SAUs or Universities can be given option to formulate their own cafeteria of courses under their IDP. D. UG degree by design The focus of the NEP 2020 is on the holistic development of graduating students which includes “arming them with new- age skills that drive the Agri-4 revolution globally and can help lay the foundations of a knowledge- based and technology-driven agri-economy in the country”. The 42 existing system of agri- education is uniform and inflexible with a rigid structure with no choice for the students to harness his / her individual creativity creating a huge mass of unemployable graduates. The result is that India lags behind in innovations and tech-based entrepreneurship. Students will create an approved program of study that fulfils their academic and career goals. SKUAST-K has proposed the “DEGREE by DESIGN Model”, in which the student shall complete all the core courses required for a degree program in 120 credit hours. The remaining 40-60 Credits shall be distributed as outlined above. The concept empowers students with a value-added graduate degree with add-on specialization in a specific sub- sector of his/her interest that they would otherwise acquire after post-graduation. Examples of Degree by design in Agriculture and Horticulture. Agriculture yy BSc Agriculture (Seed Production) yy BSc Agriculture (GIS and RS) yy BSc Agriculture (Organic Input production) yy BSc Agriculture (Integrated Farming System) Horticulture yy BSc Horticulture (Commercial Floriculture) yy BSc Horticulture (High Tech Nursery management) yy BSc Horticulture (Protected Vegetable Cultivation) yy BSc Horticulture (Precision Farming) yy BSc Horticulture (GIS and RS) Similar designer UG degrees shall be offered in other Agri- allied disciplines. E. Multiple Entry and Exit System (MEES) The multiple entries and exit system as envisaged in NEP 2020 poses an important operational challenge before institutions to ensure a module for certificate and diploma courses that is laden with specific skill sets to address the basic bottleneck of education-skill disconnect identified in NEP 2020.