 Common recommended management practices (RMPs) include mulch farming, conservation tillage, agro-forestry, diverse and intercropping systems, crop rotation, cover crops, and integrated nutrient management including the use of manure, compost, bio solids, improved grazing, and forest management. Further, many agricultural activities enhance GHG emissions. Rice is an important crop in India constituting over 42.5% of the area under cereal cultivation. Rice is cultivated under flooded condition and the anaerobic condition created during rice cultivation leads to emission of CH4 and N2O. A recent study conducted in Punjab indicated that organic amendment can significantly reduce methane emission from rice field. Employment opportunities is one of the major issues of developing countries. Organic, farming requires over 15% more labour than traditional farming and therefore provides rural job opportunities. Some of the commonly used organic farming techniques such as strip farming, non-chemical weeding, and production, collection and transportation of organic supplements all requires significant labour. The labour scarcity and cost involved therein, may constrain adoption of organic farming in developed countries and also for cash-poor farmers in developing countries. However, for countries like India, labour as well as the cost involved therein is not a constraint. Instead, organic farming can generate employment opportunity for a vast section of rural communities. Strategies A live, healthy soil with proper cropping patterns, crop residue management and effective crop rotation can sustain optimum productivity over the years, without any loss in fertility. A living soil can be maintained by continuous incorporation of crop and weed biomass, use of animal dung, urine- based manures (FYM, NADEP, vermicompost), biofertilisers and bio enhancers, special liquid formulations (like vermin wash, compost tea etc.). Important components of organic farming are crop rotation, use of crop residue, biological nitrogen fixation, biopesticides, biogas slurry etc. Multiple cropping and crop rotation For practicing sustainable agriculture there should be rotation of crops on the same land over a period of two years or more for maintaining soil fertility, and control insects, weed and diseases. Mix cropping is the outstanding feature of organic farming in which variety of crops are grown simultaneously or at different time on the same land. In every season care should be taken to maintain legume cropping at least 40%. Mix cropping promotes photosynthesis and reduces the competition for nutrients because different plants draw their nutrients from different depth of soil. The legumes fix atmospheric nitrogen and make it available for companion or succeeding crops. Deep rooted plants draw nutrients from deeper layer of soil and bring them to the surface of soil through their leaf fall.