 Under this system, there are three different sub-systems namely microplant based seed production system, microtuber based seed production system, and Aeroponic based seed production system. Under hi-tech seed production system, nucleus planting material is produced in the laboratory under controlled condition. The virus free plants is used as mother plant for micropropagation. The microplants/microtubers are planted in net-house at 30 cm × 10 cm spacing for production of mini-tubers (G-0). The minitubers produced in generation-0 are multiplied in generation-I at a spacing of 45-60 cm × 15 cm. The produce of generation-I is further multiplied in generation-II. The produce of stage IV and generation-II is called as breeder seed and supplied to public and private organization for further multiplication in three clonal cycle’s, viz. foundation-1, foundation-2, certified seed. The adoption of hi-tech seed production technologies developed by the Institute has led to opening of more than 20 tissue culture labs throughout the country. Several private seed companies such as M/s Reliance Life Sciences, Navi Mumbai; Cadila Pharmaceuiticals Ltd., Ahmedabad; KF Bioplants, Pvt. Ltd., Pune/Bengaluru; Transgene Bioplants Pvt. Ltd., Chandigarh etc. are taking virus free in vitro plantlets from CPRI for further multiplication in their seed production programme. Micropropagation of disease free mother plant Soon after varietal release, 10-20 healthy uniform Steps in microplant based seed production system Steps in microtuber based seed production system November–December 2019 19 tubers are selected and planted under controlled conditions in the pots in poly/net house for indexing against the viruses. The ideal temperature for plant growth as well as virus multiplication should be 20-25°C. The plants are tested by ELISA for virus freedom after 6 to 7 weeks of planting or 6 to 8 leaf stage. The infected plants with viruses during ELISA testing should be destroyed and only the healthy plants should be retained for further testing by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for virus freedom. Finally healthy plants obtained during series of testing are used as mother plant for micropropagation. Development of healthy mother plants from virus infected plant Sometimes we may not be getting even a single plant completely free from viruses after releasing the variety. In such situation, meristem tip culture coupled with thermotherapy has become a powerful and successful tool for virus elimination from infected plants and has been successfully applied in potato for development of virus- free plants. The steps followed during virus elimination through meristem tip culture are described here. The plants are tested against potato viruses and viroids like PVX, PVS, PVA, PVY, PVM, PLRV, PALCV and PSTVd through ELISA, EM and PCR.