 pH ranged from 9.3 to 9.6, EC ranged from 0.01 dS/m to 1.94 dS/m, SOC content ranged from 0.02 to 3.78%, available N content ranged from 80 to 596 kg/ha, available P content ranged from 0.99 to 124 kg/ha and available K content ranged from 36 to 1198 kg/ha. Similarly, DTPA extractable Zn, Fe, Mn and Cu content in soil samples varied from 0.11 to 13.6, 1.39 to 57.0, 1.94 to 118 and 0.16 to 9.13 mg/kg, respectively. Hyperspectral signatures of collected soil samples (n=628) from different AESRs were measured using spectroradiometer facility. Variation in spectral signatures of collected soil samples was observed. Overall height of the spectra, absorption features of the spectra and slope of the spectra at different spectral regions depend on the inherent composition of soil and thus these spectral signatures act as a proxy for different soil properties. Risk assessment of nanoparticles accumulation in soils, effects of metal oxide nanoparticles on soil bacterial communities, soil microbial processes and evaluation of phytotoxicity using Genomic approaches: It was observed that ZnO spiked acidic and alkaline soil showed decrease in critical microbial endpoints (soil enzymes, microbial biomass -C, -N and -P and soil respiration) at highest level of 3,000 mg/kg. In SiO2 and CaO, all parameters, except soil respiration and biomass carbon decreased at 4000 mg/kg. The threshold of ZnO toxicity on beneficial microorganisms (Bacillus safensis, Raoultella terrigena, Acinetobacter spp., Bacillus amyloliquefaciens and Trichoderma asperellum) varied depending on the bacteria. Changes in colony morphology, growth reduction and population reduction were observed at levels greater than 10 mg/kg. The threshold level of NP toxicity to rice plant (var. Swarna) was identified. Higher concentrations of the metal oxides had adverse effect on the growth of rice. Transcriptome analysis of rice grains indicated up regulation of stress response genes, viz. pentatricopeptide repeat proteins, heavy metal transport/detoxification protein and glycoside hydrolase. Heavy metals differentially affected the expression of dominant starch synthesis genes namely ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase and granule-bound starch synthase. Paddy straw residues management through in-situ microbial decomposition with mechanical interventions: Microbial consortium package has been standardized for in situ decomposition of paddy straw, application of either 2.0 kg solid or 10 numbers of capsule based NRRI microbial consortium per ha along with different additives was found efficient in decomposition of paddy straw under field condition. There was 38- 41% and 31-35% degradation of paddy straw ( in terms of C:N ratio reduction) was achieved in microbial consortium treatment after 21-25 days under Cuttack and Haryana conditions, respectively as compared to without microbial culture application. In all the three locations (NRRI, PAU and HAU), there was 4.0-9.