 Meenakshi Arya Scientist (Plant Pathology) Dr. Madhulika Pandey Teaching Associate Dr. Mukesh Srivastava Registrar Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University Jhansi 284 003 Acknowledgement ICAR-Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa Campus, New Delhi 110012 Published by Dr. Mukesh Srivastava Registrar Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University Jhansi 284 003 Annual Report 2016 - 2017 (July, 2016 to June, 2017) Telephone No. : 0510-2730555, 0510-2730777 Fax : 0510-2730555 E-mail : vcrlbcau@gmail.com Website : http://www.rlbcau.ac.in Foreword I am happy to present the third Annual Report of Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University (RLBCAU), Jhansi for the year 2016-17 that highlights the important activities and achievements of the University during the year. The University made steady progress to achieve the mandated objectives of its establishment as an institution of national importance. The academic activities for imparting quality education were further consolidated by initiating two new undergraduate programme for the degree of B.Sc (Hons) Horticulture and B.Sc (Hons.) Forestry, besides continuing programme for the degree of B.Sc (Hons) Agriculture. The University admitted the students through All India Entrance Examination in Agriculture and Allied Sciences (AIEEA) for UG programmes conducted by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, which reflects the national character in the composition of admitted students. Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University Academic Regulations-2016 for Postgraduate Studies were also framed and placed before Parliament for regulating PG programmes in Agriculture and allied sciences. The university strengthened its laboratories, library and other learning resources including IT services for the students and faculty. The research work was primarily focused to enhance chick-pea production in Bundelkhand region with multi-pronged approach of breeding, disease resistance, seed production, intercropping and nutrient & water management under ICAR-AICRP Chick-pea programme. Fresh crosses were attempted to generate the breeding material having the variability for yield, its component traits and resistance against major diseases. A large number of chick pea entries of IVT, AVT1, AVT2 (desi, Kabuli, rainfed, late sown) were evaluated against major chick pea diseases of the region like wilt and dry root rot . Agricultural advisory services play a crucial role in promoting agricultural productivity, increasing food security, improving rural livelihoods, and promoting agriculture as an engine of pro-poor economic growth.