 A need-based capacity building activity was also initiated for one CRIDA scientist on cropping systems modelling (APSIM) which will take some time to develop hands-on capacity. The teams of both IARI and CRIDA have completed data collection from their respective project location and were supported for parameterization the whole farm models. We collaborated with IARI team to organize workshop on integrated whole farm modelling on 20th November 2019 at IARI, New Delhi for participants from ICAR and SAUs. A half day orientation workshop on systems modelling was also organized at IIFSR, Modipuram on the 13th February, 2020, where it was agreed to build capacity of a team of scientists of AICRP-Integrated Farming Systems on the use whole farm modelling as a decision support. One Masters student of Sustainable Development from TERI, Delhi was also trained on systems analysis looking at sustainability of farming systems from January to May 2019. Systems dynamics modelling for value chain analysis: Significant efforts during the current year resulted in development of an initial system dynamics (SD) model for rabi sorghum value chain analysis using available data. A few initial simulations were run to evaluate impact of different policy interventions to test the model. Now we are ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 34 Fig. 5. Whole farm model results on monthly labour use in a farming system for a five years’ time horizon, Tirupati district, Andhra Pradesh (Days) collecting data from all the nodes of the sorghum- dairy value chain starting from production to consumption including processing and trade from major sorghum producing states to develop a fully validated model. A five days’ capacity building training on ‘system dynamics modelling for value chain analysis’ provided hands-on skills to the participants from ICAR and SAUs. As a result, NIAP team has started building SD model for potato value chain for western Uttar Pradesh and IVRI team has now been working on buffalo value chain using the SD model. An advanced training on system dynamics modelling was organized from 9-13 December for two PhD students’ one each from TNAU, Coimbatore and UAS, Dharwad. The students were supported in conceptualizing SD models for value chain analysis; one on Fodder sorghum value chain in Tamil Nadu and another on pigeon pea and ragi (finger millet) value chain in Karnataka. Two Master’s student of Public Policy from NLSU, Bangalore were also trained as an intern on sorghum value chain and understanding impact of shocks on farm households. Capacity building activities yy ICRISAT organized a training course on Next Generation Genomics in which more than 60 young scientists from India were trained during Feb 10-15, 2020. yy ICRISAT organized a webinar on Next Generation Genomics and Integrated Breeding for Crop Improvement which had 3388 participants from 68 countries (2917 from India) on May 14, 2020.