 Being an energy source and a natural fruit sweetener, banana syrup can be designed for the natural food market, so that the terms ‘fruit sweetener’, ‘sweetened only with fruit’ can be used to popularize it. It can be used as a flavouring agent in yoghurt, milkshakes or stopping for pancakes, ice cream, ice slushes, etc. Additionally, it can also give a caramel flavour and tinge of browning of the products in baking, as a result of partial degradation. Since, it has its inherent preservative ability to reduce water activity and to increase osmotic pressure to a level where the growth of even the most spoilage microorganisms is no longer possible, banana syrup, will not require addition of any chemical preservatives to extend its shelf life. Low fat chips Snack industry is expected to witness stellar growth in accord with the changes in lifestyle and food habits. Endowed with unique savour, banana chips are gaining popularity as a deep fried product. Owing to high incidence of health issues, with consumption of deep fried products, consumers nowadays are more inclined towards healthy products, which are low in fat and calories. Banana chips are produced by deep frying of thin slice of mature, unripe banana from Nendran and Saba variety in India and Philippines, respectively. Owing to high starch content, banana chips from popoulu variety is also preferred by people. Studies have proved that modification of product surface can reduce oil uptake during deep fat frying. Hence, by employing surface modifying agents, the oil absorption during deep fat frying of banana slices can be reduced up to 25%. Pairing low-fat with deep frying technology can yield healthy and appetizing banana chips that will be well suited for calorie conscious people. Low sodium stem and flower pickles Large amount of wastes like stem, flower, etc. with higher nutritive values are available in banana production system after harvesting bunches. The impact on utilization of low sodium salts on sensory properties of banana stem and flower pickles has proved to be a promising methodology and technology to introduce new, innovative product to the ever growing pickling industry. Without the worry of an enormous amount of salt content being present in the conventional pickle, diet conscious people and people with certain medical conditions, including heart problem, high blood pressure and kidney disorder can dine with this product as banana inherently rich in potassium and the process involves the use of lesser sodium. Low sodium salt had no negative impact on nutritional properties of banana flower and stem pickle but decreased the sodium content. Pickles sodium content less than 23% is considered to be a suitable alternative for preparation of banana stem and flower pickle.