 Application 75:50:50kg NPK/ha apply at sowing time remaining 75kg N apply after 30 days after planting. Tuberose: Tuberose should be planted at 30 x 30 cm spacing in well-drained soil. Application of 50:50:50kg NPK/ha should be done at the time of sowing time. Remaining 50kg N should be applied after 30 days of planting as top dressing. Improved and high yielding varieties like Single, Double, Phule Rajani, Shrungar, Rajat, Kolkata Single, Prajwal, etc should be used. Gladiolus: Gladiolus should be planted at 30 x 30 cm spacing in well-drained soil. Application of 50:50:50 kg NPK/ha should be done at the time of sowing time. Remaining 50 kg N should be ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 312 applied after 30 days of planting as top dressing. Improved high yielding varieties like Apsara, Meera, Sapna, Punam, Phule Ganesh, Phule Prerana, Phule Tejas, Nilrekha, White Prosperity, etc should be used. Jasmin: Planting of jasmine should be done by cutting in well drained black soil; while planting apply 20:20:20 gm NPK/plant, after two months apply 20 gm N/plant. After one year Apply 100:50:50kg NPK/ha at the time of pruning of plants. Improved varieties like Single, Double, Motiya, Madanban, Gundmalai, Bela, Bangalore, etc should be used for higher yield. Rose: Plant graft in Light to medium well drained soil at 150 x 150 cm spacing. Apply 20:15:15 gm NPK/plant at the time of pruning. The crop should be protected from diseases like downy mildew and powdery mildew. Spray of copper Oxychloride 75 WP 20 g or Captan 50 % WP 25 g per 10 lit of water if incidence is observed. Advisories Related to Livestock and Fisheries: Dairy Cattle: Vaccination of cattle to protect them from deadly viral foot and mouth disease should be completed in September- October and March-April twice in the year. Goat: Vaccination of goats to protect them from deadly viral PPR disease (Bulkandi) disease should be completed once in every three years. Poultry: Vent pecking is hazardous and economic loss-making bad habits of newly developed poultry breeds like Grampriya, Kaveri, Vanaraja and Giriraja. To avoid this loss, poultry farmers should follow debeaking of birds and sufficient vitamins (A, D, E, K) and minerals (Ca, P, Na) should be given to the birds through feed or water regularly. Fodder management: To avoid the annual green fodder scarcity to domestic animals, high yielding Napier fodder varieties like BNH- 10, Phule Gunwant and DHN-6 should be cultivated by farmers on 0.04 ha area per animal. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 313 Fisheries: Farm pods created under NHM, and state department of agriculture should be utilised for fish farming where water is available throughout the year. Mixed fish breeds like Rohu, Katla, Mrigal and Cyprinus can be grown in fishponds. Biofloc fish farming should be adopted by small and marginal farmers. Advisories Related to Allied Enterprises: Sericulture: Mulberry variety V-1 should be planted for higher leaf yield and quality cocoons.