 Till today, GI registry has given 32 GI tag for the fruits which includes Mango, Banana, Citrus, Guava, Grapes, Pineapple, Litchi, Custard apple, Strawberry, Pomegranate, Fig and Jackfruit. Among fruits, mango has the highest number of GI tag followed by banana and citrus. The detailed list of GI’s in fruit crops and their unique characteristics is in Table 1. Conclusion Geographical indications is a emerging field in Intellectual property. India is blessed with diversified agro-climatic conditions, which have encouraged the cultivation of different number of fruit crops. Each fruit crop growing in India has a unique attribute which are distinct from the fruits grown in other countries. These unique characters facilitates the registration of fruit crops under GI but the number of registered crops under GI is very low in number than the actual crops eligible for registration. So, there is an urgent need to spread awareness in community/farmers about the importance of GI. It is imperative to maintain quality standards at lower level with adoption of good agricultural practices. Just being granted GI image to a place does not mean everything to growers to that location, however unique measures like providing online stage, basis for implementation of GAP is the need of hour. GI tag will pave a better way of branding and marketing of produces both in international and domestic markets. For further interaction, please write to: Raghavendra H R, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012. *Corresponding author e-mail: raghuhorti53@ gmail.com Geographical indications of horticultural crops up to March 2020 Availability of high-yielding varieties/hybrids and increased irrigated facilities have resulted in the development of production-intensive cropping systems in several parts of India, and this has catalyzed further agronomic research based on the cropping-system approach. Many changes have also taken place in the crop-production technologies. And this necessitated the revision of the earlier publication brought out in 2002. The revised textbook is in two volumes: First is covering Foodgrains and second is on Commercial Crops. The discipline of Agronomy has no longer remained mere field trials without application of discoveries emanating from the related disciplines of Genetics, Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry, Plant Biochemistry, etc. The future Agronomy Landscape will face challenges of climate change, transboundary issues, TRIPS and other trade-related barriers, biotic and abiotic stresses, consequences of biotechnology and genetic engineering and increased market demands in terms of quality assurance, customized food crops, global competition, ecosystem services on land and social equities etc. The Agronomy must measure up to these futuristic challenges with well-defined metrics and methodologies for performance.