 For example, had the breeders/seed production scientists been more careful in monitoring, the segregation/admixture for morphological traits like petal and pollen colour could have been easily identified and red flags raised. 5.09 The P.1. (Dr. Kumar) and Co-P.1. (Dr. Khadi) of the NATP funded project (under which BNLA106 was developed) were members of the GEAC (Genetic Engineering Approval Committee), and present in a meeting, when the application for approval of large scale field trials of BNBt was discussed (Annexure-IX; Pgs.11 0-112). This is a clear case of conflict of interest and should have been avoided. To avoid repetition in future, ICAR should issue instructions to its scientists to recuse themselves from the meetings of GEAC and/or RCGM (Review Committee on Genetic Manipulations) when their own work is being discussed. The same should apply to other scientists working in NARS. 5.10 There was a clear lack of coordination amongst various cooperating centres/scientists in the project. This began with preparation ofthe NATP project proposal, when responsibilities were assigned to Dr. Katageri (and accepted by him) for which according to his own current statement, he does not have the expertise. Thereafter, in matters of preparing flanking sequences, testing for purity, proper supervision of breeder seed production, etc. - the whole range of activities reflect this lack of coordination and overall guidance. THE TESTS 6.00 'The third term of reference to the Committee is to examine whether there were any deficiencies in the various tests done at various stages to establish the distinctive nature of the BNLA106 event. 6.01 A fundamental flaw in the development of BNBt lies in the fact that there was only one event. The team should have developed more events before taking one of them forward. 11 - - - - - - - - - - - - 6.02 A positive ELISA test is no evidence for presence of BNLA106 event. The ELISA test is based on protein expression, and not on the presence of any specific event. Therefore, it cannot distinguish between BNLA106 and MON531. 6.03 Event specific primers were not developed for BNBt. These should have been developed, preferably by PI, and used by the team to test for presence of the BNLA106 event. 6.04. The NOS promoter is driving nptll in the pBinBt3 construct. This is a configuration that is not present in MON531. This unique feature could have been exploited by NRCPB to develop a PCR assay for distinguishing between BNBt and MON531 even in the absence of event specific markers. This feature of the construct could have been utilized by NRCPB during the project but this was not done. 6.05. The Southern hybridization analysis conducted in NRCPB on BNBt is somewhat limited". Only one enzyme-probe combination was used in this analysis. Additional enzyme- probe combinations would have provided a better description of the uniqueness of the BNLA106 event. FUTURE COURSE OF ACTION 7.