 Petroleum2 spots (both fluorescent) Chloroform2 spots (fluorescent) + 1 spot Ethyl acetate2 spots Methanol2 spots (F) (iv) PTLC ( Preparative TLC ) was done to isolate the individual components. •Quantity in sufficient for IR/Mass /NMR (Analytical/Spectral grade) •Column is yet to done Pharmacology LD50 = < 500 mg/kg (Methanolic extract) It has been observed that it is a potent drug. The other pharmacological study is still being conducted. CONCLUSION It is evident from the results obtained from the study that the paste of pojo bark is beneficial in the treatment of diarrhoea in goats that is not associated with helminthes. It is very cheap medicinal agent and has no ill effect on the animals. References available also supports the view that pojo bark is beneficial in treatment of diarrhoea. The bark is also applied to the body for pains arising from blows or bruises or from hard work. It is also beneficial for fractured bones. However, it is very unfortunate that by damaging the tree its bark is removed for making candle or for medicinal purpose. The plant needs protection in Jharkhand. The pharmacological studies being carried out in collaboration with the Department of Pharmacology, BIT, Mesera, Ranchi. Many important pharmacological findings are expected to come out of this plant. 281 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code :1585 Title of the ITK :Treatment of diarrhoea by juice of urhul ( Hibiscus sinensis) flowers in goats Description of the ITK :Diarrhoea is common in goats in Samtoli village of Simdega district in Jharkhand and is controlled by extract of urhul flower. Juice of urhul flowers ( 2–3 flowers) is orally administered twice a day for 3 days. The cost of the treatment is Rs 30 per animal. Majority of the farmers use this ITK in the referred village. About 20% of goats suffer from diarrhoea in this village and 50% are treated by the reported ITK. Name and address of the discloser :Shri Babulal Horo, Pathalkudwa, Church Lane, Ranchi (Jharkhand) Location of use of the ITK :Samtoli, Simdega, Simdega (Jharkhand) Geographical indicators :An evergreen, woody glabrous, showy shrub, 5–8 feet high. The flowers solitary, axillary and bell shaped. It is native of China. It is grown as an ornamental plant in gardens through out India and often planted as hedge or fence plant. Experimenters :D r B. K. Roy, Associate Professor , Department. of Pharmacology and Toxicology and Dr R. P. Singh ‘Ratan’, Head, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) METHODOLOGY Location The experiment was conducted in village Samtoli, Block Simdega, Simdega (Jharkhand). PRA and field study The field study was conducted following the PRA methodology with 20 respondents. The parameters or factors included were extent of cure in adults, extent of cure in kids, potency, duration Table 1.