 The detection limits of PTEs (mg L-1) in FAAS was as follow- Cd = 0.0004, Cr=0 .003, Fe=0.008, Mn=0.0015, Ni= 0.009, Pb= 0.01, and Zn = 0.0005. To maintain quality control, analytical-grade chemi- cals, and glassware were used in the experiment. Glassware was cleaned with detergent, tap water, and deionized water, respec- tively. Deionized water was used to prepare standard solutions throughout the analysis. Standard reference material was used to calibrate the instrument. Proper handling and care were main- tained to avoid contamination and to achieve the desired accuracy. 2.4. Indices to assess contamination level Assessment of soil contamination can be done by comparing the present and background concentrations through the Geo- accumulation index (Igeo). This index was introduced by Muller who has derived a degree of contamination based on the back- ground concentration of ith metal in the soil, the current metal concentration in soils with a lithographic factor of 1.5 [4,32]. In the current study, the average concentration of different PTEs from Site -C (control sample) was applied as the background con- centration of metals. Sites C is the control site, which region was situated in the forest area and devoid of anthropogenic activities. Igeo ¼ log2ð Csoil 1:5 Bn Þ ð1Þ Where Igeo indicates the geoaccumulation index. Bn is the background concentration of PTEs (mgkg1). The value 1.5 is the lithospheric factor. Here, the value of Igeo determines the metal contamination degree in the region. Igeo less than ’00 indicates the region is practically uncontaminated; Igeo (0–1) indicates the region is uncontaminated to moderately contaminated; Igeo (1– 2) indicates: moderately contamination; Igeo (2–3) suggested moderately to heavily contamination; Igeo (3–4) indicates - heavily contamination; Igeo < (4–5) indicates heavily to extremely contamination, and Igeo (>5) suggest extremely contamination [32]. To assess the potential ecological risk, Hakanson (1980) has derived an index known as the Ecological Risk Index (ERI) [33]. The ecological risk index is used to assess the negative harmful impact of PTEs on the soil as well as on its ecological functions. As per this index, the potential ecological risk factor (ER) is esti- A. Naz Materials Today: Proceedings xxx (xxxx) xxx 2 mated by multiplying the toxicity factor of a respective element with the actual concentration of that element in the region [32]. ER ¼ Ti  Ci f ð2Þ ERI ¼ X ER ð3Þ Where ER is the ’Ecological Risk factor’, Cf i is the ’Contamination Factor’, Ti is the ’Toxic Response Factor’ of the ith element. ERI is the ’Ecological Risk Index’. The Ti for the metals used in this study is as follows- Cd = 30; Pb = 5; Cr and Ni = 2, Fe, Mn, and Zn = 1 [32]. ERI value less than 150 indicates low ecological risk, ERI 150–300 indi- cates moderate ecological risk, ERI vlaue between 300–600 indi- cates considerable ecological risk, and ERI >600 suggests very high ecological risk.