484 million ha. The State comprises of 31 districts and 584mandals (sub-districts). The compact size of each district is bound to sharpen the edge of district administration, with smooth delivery of all public services to all the families. Based on rainfall, type of soils and cropping pattern, the State is divided into three agro-climatic zones viz. Northern Telangana zone, Central Telangana zone and Southern Telangana zone. Out of total geographical area of the state, 37.3 per cent is under cultivation and around 23 per cent is under forest cover. Land put to non-agriculture uses is around 8 percent. Agriculture has been the backbone of Telangana economy. Agriculture sector is mainly rainfed and depends to a significant extent on the depleting ground water. Out of the total geographical area of 112.08 lakh ha, the gross cropped area is 53.15 lakh ha, net cropped area is 43.76 lakh ha. The gross irrigated area is 25, 29 lakh ha and net irrigated area is 17.26 lakh ha. The cropping intensity in the state is 121 per cent. Rice is the major food crop. Other important local crops are cotton, sugar cane, soybean, turmeric, redgram, chillies, maize etc. Good performance of this sector is vital for inclusive growth. There have been significant changes in the structure and performance of the agrarian economy in the state in the recent years. The share of Telangana’s economy in India is about 4.1 percent. Based on rainfall, type of soils and cropping pattern, the State is divided into three agro-climatic zones viz. Northern Telangana zone, Central Telangana zone and Southern Telangana zone. 26.1 Agro-climatic zone-wise production constraints Major crop/ cropping system Farming situation Specific Production Constraint 1. Northern Telengana Zone Paddy-paddy Irrigated In most of the cases, 2nd paddy in rabi suffers due to in sufficient availability of irrigation water. Irrigated Demands higher rate of application of fertilizers particularly N due to poor use efficiency. 26 TELANGANA 536 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Major crop/ cropping system Farming situation Specific Production Constraint Cotton Red soils (rainfed) Cotton grown on red soils with poor water holding capacity suffers due to prolonged dry spells results in low productivity. So growing cotton under this situation becomes risky. Cotton is not a recommended crop on rainfed red soils. Black soils (Irrigated) Cotton suffers on black soils where there is no life saving irrigation facilities during dry spells. Black soils (Rainfed) Sole cotton is very risky. Soybean Rainfed Common variety (JS 335) is susceptible to pests and diseases. Needs variety replacement. Sole soybean is risky due to prolonged dry spells. Life saving irrigation with harvested rainwater is needed. In-situ water conservation measures such as Broad Bed Furrow is essential for successful crop with higher yields. Redgram Black/Red soils (Rainfed) Commonly growing varieties are yielding less.