 Field evaluation is being carried out for FoC race 1 at sick plots in Theni, Tamil Nadu by ICAR-NRCB. Three hybrids of 3x X 2x crosses & 5 hybrids of 2x X 2x crosses were found resistant/ field tolerant under pot screening. Initiative 2. Facilitation of germplasm exchange of the selected crops including wild species of temperate fruits, cotton, winter wheat, trait specific soybean, oil palm, olive and other species as prioritized by ICAR-NBPGR. Bioversity International facilitated scientific exchanges with the Uzbek Research Institute of Horticulture, Viticulture and Winemaking (URIHVW), Samarkand & Institute of Horticulture, Viticulture & Winemaking, Tashkent. Drs SP Ahlawat, (ICAR-NBPGR), JC Rana and Muhabbat (Bioversity International), participated in the exchange meetings from September 21-28, 2019. Consequently, a list of 208 accessions of 22 temperate fruit crops from Uzbek institutes were obtained and handed over to ICAR-NBPGR for mutual exchange. Initiative 3. A. Exploration, collection, conservation, evaluation, nutritional profiling of Neglected and Underutilized Species (NUS), Crops Wild Relatives (CWR) and other landraces and species of economic importance A total of 23 accessions of underutilized fruit crops were added to the genetic diversity park at Bengaluru. The total collection now stands at 265 varieties belonging to 118 species, 67 genera and 35 families. As regards to evaluation, 48 genotypes of Jackfruit were analysed for Genetic diversity using SSR markers in collaboration with University of Horticultural Sciences, Bagalkot. Dendrogram results (Fig. 1) showed 2 major clusters. The first cluster comprised of two wild species viz. Monkey jack and Morang and the cultivated PLR-1 genotype. Second cluster included cultivated species from both India and South East Asia types. Biochemical profiling of 34 fruit species were also undertaken during the year. Initiative 4. Studies on Ecosystem Services (including the direct and indirect services of pollinators, natural enemies of pests, soil arthropods etc.) and their economic valuation. Studies on Quantitative Assessment of Ecosystem Services were carried out in Adilabad, Karimnagar and West Godavari districts along the river Godavari in collaboration with ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources (NBFGR), Lucknow and National Bureau of Agriculturally Important Insect Resources (NBAIR), Bengaluru. The objective was to make a quantitative assessment of the impact of agriculture on terrestrial and aquatic ecosystem Fig. 1. Genetic diversity of Jack fruit accessions ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 9 services to assist in developing alternate scenarios. The fish and aquatic insect diversities, water quality viz.