 The disease can kill eyes during storage; affect stems before emergence (stem canker) and form black scurf (black irregular lumpy encrustations of fungal sclerotia) on progeny tubers after senescence. Infected sprouts become blackened and may not emerge in severe cases. Reddish brown lesions develop on stems and often girdle them. Partial or complete girdling of the stems results in rosetting of plant tops, purple pigmentation, upward chlorosis or rolling of leaves. Formation of aerial tubers in axis of leaves due to interference with starch translocation, are also observed in the infected plants. The disease is prevalent in most potato growing regions of the world including India. In India, it has spread widely in most potato growing regions. The disease is caused by a fungal pathogen Rhizoctonia solani Kuhn (perfect basidial stage: Thenatephorus cucumeris (Frank) Donk). The pathogen is both soil and seed borne but the disease spreads to new growing areas primarily through sclerotia-covered seed tubers. Soil-borne infection emerges later in the season since the fungus needs some time to grow into proximity with its potato host. Optimum temperature for germination of sclerotia is 23oC and for development of stem lesions is 18oC. Sclerotial development on tubers is initiated depending on environmental conditions. Maximum development of sclerotia takes place in the period between dehaulming and harvest of the crop. Late harvested crop show more black scurf incidence. The host range of R. solani is very wide and the pathogen causes diseases of many economically important plants belonging to Solanaceae, Fabaceae, Asteraceae, Poaceae and Brassicaceae as well as other ornamental plants and forest trees. Management The practices like use of healthy seed tubers free from sclerotia, seed tuber treatment with 3% boric acid (dip for 30 minutes/ spray) before cold storage or pencycuron (@ 0.25%) as spray on tubers at planting, planting in relatively dry and warm soil with shallow covering of seed tubers to achieve rapid crop emergence with less opportunity for the fungus to attack, two to four year crop rotation with cereals and legumes, soil solarization with transparent polyethylene mulching during hot summer months especially in Indian subtropical plains have been found very effective for control of the disease. Bio-control agents such as Trichoderma viride, T. harzianum and fungicides such as benomyl, thiabendazole, carboxin, and azoxystrobin have been reported effective for control of the disease. A continuous use of treated seed for 2-3 crop seasons has been found to completely check the disease. Wherever possible, crop rotation of 1-2 years may be followed. Charcoal rot The disease is favoured by high soil moisture coupled with temperature exceeding 28oC. The affected tubers rot both in field and during storage and can cause severe losses under unusually warm wet weather. The fungus attacks the growing plants and tubers at harvest and storage.