 Nicobari tribal farmers of Teressa Island, Car Nicobar and Nancowrie group of islands are maintaining the pure indigenous stock of Teressa goats. Population is approximately 7,800. Teressa goats are tall, sturdy, brownish or dark tan or black or white, with white and black patches. The animal has peculiar white patch/line starting from inner canthus of both eyes or from eye brows and extending up to nostrils or mouth; black hairs on dorsal midline up to the tail; black muzzle, eyelids and hoofs. Height ranges from 24 to 27 inches. Head length of male and female is 8.86±0.10 and 7.5±0.27 inches. The other physical features are: tail-medium to long; horn—large with flat base; and ears—erected directing downwards. Teressa goats are considered as an indigenous goat breed/germplasm belonging to this island territory. An average flock size of 6 Teressa goats are maintained by individual tribal family of Nicobar group of islands. Nicobari pig (Accession No : INDIA_PIG_3300_ NICOBARI_09005): Nicobari pigs, indigenous pigs of Nicobar Islands, are reared by Nicoabri tribes since time immemorial. Approximate population is 35,000. They are sturdy and short with long body and red- brown, black, grey, brown, blackish brown and fawn skin colour. Marked bristle crest (mane) on the back of the pig extending from mid head/shoulder to base of the tail. Facial profile varied from flat to concave. Slightly downward arch/curvature of the low back. Short neck with very large jowl. Characteristic feature is the tail having no curling. They are fast runner. Evolved and thriving under plantation based low input production system of the Nicobari tribes. They have good fostering ability and have less pre-weaning mortality. Health management in poultry: In ovo dietary exposures to bioactive components present in the Kalmegh and Noni enhances the expression of TLR- 3, TLR-4 and TLR-5 genes and systemic inflammatory immune response in chicks. Elevated expression indicated that supplementing Kalmegh and Noni in breeder diet induces antiviral and antibacterial responses in their progeny. Water supplement of aqueous extract of neem and Aloe vera @ 3 ml/bird/day has hepatoprotective, hypocholestremic and anti hyperglycemic effect in Nicobari fowl. Herbal preparation for conjunctivitis in poultry: Conjunctivitis, usually caused by bacteria, virus and fungus, is a wide spread problem among rural poultry in A&N Islands where more than 80% of poultry population belong to backyard poultry. In clinical trials application of the Aloe vera based herbal eye drops (2-3 drops) reduced the microbial load, swelling and pus discharge of affected eyes. The oil based aloe herbal eye drops worked better than antibiotics and could be an effective ethno veterinary medicine and best alternative to alleviate antimicrobial resistance in the management/treatment of conjunctivitis in poultry.