 A society based on renewable resources, such as forestry and agricultural products, is superior to a civilization founded on non-renewable resources i.e., oil, coal, etc. This is because the former and not the latter can last; the former co-exit with nature, while the latter rules over it; the former holds the sign of life, while the latter of death (Schumacher 1997). 2.1. Testimonies of Gandhiji’s Efforts on Environment Conservation Gandhiji made sincere efforts to practice his ideas of environmental principles in actual life. His Tolstoy and Phoenix Farms in South Africa and the Ashrams he subsequently established in India testifies this. Throughout his life he demonstrated the importance and personal practice of health, hygiene and sanitation. Gandhiji was a practitioner and an ardent advocate of vegetarianism. “Nature cure,” a traditional Indian method of medicine, was also practiced by him. He was a committed practitioner of recycling and reuse. The ecological dimensions of Gandhiji’s thinking can be comprehended in the following examples. He regularly practiced 24 hours of silence, which was an ecological gesture, a mode of energy conservation and a devastating indictment of the current industrial culture of noise and consumption. He was a full-fledged critique of “noise pollution”. Gandhiji did not prevent others from killing snakes but a cobra entering his room was left alone. “I do not want to live at the cost of the life even of a snake,” he said. Gandhiji mounted a rigorous critique of the “waste” that is behind modern industrial civilization in more ways than we imagine. His close disciple and associate Kaka Kalelkar, when used to pluck leaves, Gandhiji advised that we should pluck leaves based on need and before plucking it we should apologies to tree. Gandhiji was a vegetarian but European visitors to his ashram, where only vegetarian meals were prepared, had meat served to them if they desired. To inflict a new diet upon someone who was habituated to meat at every meal was, in Gandhiji’s thinking, a form of violence. Gandhiji not only believed that “one must be the change that one wants to see in the world”, he actually practiced it and always preached the same. His life was his message. He used to 101 write brief notes on scrapes of papers and reuse the envelops to send letters by reversing it. He was consciously using only the minimal water required for bathing, even when he used to bathe with free-flowing water from the Sabarmati River. He believed that all living beings had the right to exist equally as human beings and enjoyed a lively bond between humans and the rest of the animate world. He believed that humans should harmonize with its surroundings in all walks of life. Gandhiji established the Tolstoy Farm, after the name of famous Russian writer Leo Tolstoy of War and Peace fame, in the south-western corner of the Johannesburg, South Africa. Now it has been announced as a heritage site.