 In this paper, we use the Intensification Benefit Index (IBI) (Harris, 2019) and a unique large n dataset to assess the opportunity space for irrigation-led agricultural intensification to increase the income farmers can derive from rice-wheat production systems in the EGP. We evaluate these gains vis-`a-vis the international poverty line of Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)$1.90 day−1 (World Bank, 2020). We find that while irri­ gation improves crop yields, small farm sizes limit the income increases farmers may gain through agricultural intensification. This paper in­ vestigates four aspects: First, we explore the distribution of households’ IBI values (akin to a household’s land per capita ratio) to understand farm sizes and their impact on daily incomes from crop production. Second, we compare the productivity of rice-wheat production and conservatively assess production costs to benchmark households’ FPDIs and calorie provisioning associated with increasing numbers of irriga­ tion applications. These estimates assume free irrigation. Third, we conduct a sensitivity analysis around the cost of irrigation to explore the impact of varying irrigation prices associated with different irrigation technologies on our estimated FPDI values. Fourth, we assess trends in home consumption and market participation patterns of irrigated rice- wheat production and their implications for the overall livelihoods of farming households. 2. Materials and methods 2.1. Study area & data The EGP encompasses parts of the Indian states of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, the Terai region of Nepal, and northwestern Bangladesh and contrasts with the drier Middle and Upper Gangetic Plains in Western India and Pakistan. The region generally receives between 1000 and 1500 mm of rainfall per year, of which >80% occurs in the monsoon months June–September. The soils and associated aquifers represent some of the world’s most extensive alluvial plains formed by the meandering Ganges and its tributaries that carry sediments from the A. Urfels et al. Agricultural Systems 207 (2023) 103618 3 Himalayas. Smallholders, farmers working on ≤10 ha of land and within our sample not exceeding 5 ha (see Table 1), predominantly grow rice (>90%) in the monsoon season followed by mainly wheat (>60%) but also other crops such as lentils, oilseeds, or potatoes that are planted on residual moisture after the rice harvest in November and are harvested in late March. Household-level production data for farmers’ main rice and wheat plots in 2017–2018 (henceforth ‘household data’) were collected with an ODK-assisted questionnaire as part of a collaborative data collection effort between the Cereal Systems Initiative for South Asia (www.csisa. org) and the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) (for details, see e.g., Ajay et al., 2022). Key modules included landholding charac­ teristics, plot characteristics, input and management activities, and yield outcomes.