 Azolla, Thornless Cactus, Moringa, Sugarcane top, and fodder beet are non-conventional fodder sources being grown in few pockets. Under harsh climates with poor soil conditions, range species like Stylosanthes, Clitoria, Hedge Lucerne, Tall Fescue, Sewan, Chrysopogon, Dichanthium, Cenchrus and Sehima can be grown. *Corresponding author email: rajiv68@gmail.com Water • Even though households are relatively low consumers of water, population growth and expanded water use have outweighed the effect of water saving technology and behavior. • Less than 3% of the world’s water is fresh (drinkable), of which 2.5% is frozen in the Antarctica, Arctic and glaciers. Humanity must therefore rely on 0.5% for all of man’s ecosystem’s and fresh water needs. • Man is polluting water faster than nature can recycle and purify water in rivers and lakes. More than one billion people still do not have access to fresh water. • Excessive use of water contributes to the global water stress. Water is free from nature but the infrastructure needed to deliver it is expensive. - See more at: http://www.unep.org/wed/theme water.asp#sthash.ki5vg3lB.dpuf Courtesy: United Nations Environment Programme website - http://www.unep.org/wed Indian Farming 57 January 2025 Agroforestry and ecosystem services for risk management in rainfed areas A. K. Handa1*, A. Arunachalam1, Chhavi Sirohi2, Priyanka Singh1 and Asha Ram1 1ICAR-Central Agroforestry Research Institute, Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh 284 003 2Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, Haryana 125 004 Agroforestry is a land-use system based on integration of trees, crops and/or livestock on the same piece of land to enhance productivity as well as resilience of farmlands and to deliver various vital ecological services. Based on this, it can act as a promising and potential land-based transformation solution with several co-benefits. Adoption of agroforestry can enhance farmers’ income, increase green cover, besides natural resource conservation, production of forest based raw-materials, rural development and scalability - all at the same time from same land areas with different degrees. Agroforestry is an ideal option to restore most of the degraded and wastelands in the country. The potential of agroforestry is more important for rainfed areas due to various vulnerable factors associated with predominant sole cropping systems. Keywords: Agroforestry, Climate regulation, Ecosystem services, Rainfed areas I NDIA is the first country in the world to formulate and announce the National Agroforestry Policy (in 2014), focusing on enhancing productivity, profitability, diversity and ecosystem sustainability through promotion of agroforestry. Agroforestry can simultaneously address many ecological challenges of the current era viz. food, nutrition, energy, employment, natural resources and environmental security. It includes both traditional and modern land use systems.