 Further, PLA coated, palm sheath trays were superior compared to non-coated. By polymer coating water absorptiveness from inner and outer surface is reduced and durability for storage at low temperatures is enhanced. Biodegradable films developed from fish myofibrillar protein extract along with sodium alginate, glycerol and microbial transglutaminase were suitable as edible packaging material or edible wrappers. These edible wrappers had better shelf life and were acceptable for packaging fish products. Determination of contaminants in fishery products: For determination of contaminants in fish and fishery products, developed analytical methods, validated and accredited as per ISO: 17025 requirements for heavy metals and trace elements, methyl mercury, multi-class and multi-residue detection of antibiotic residues, multi- class and multi-residue detection of pesticide residues, formaldehyde, sodium benzoate, ammonia, total volatile base nitrogen, and ciguatoxin. Species authentication: Developed a high- throughput method based on fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) spectral fingerprinting and predictive chemometric modelling for species authentication of commercially important shrimps. The method was aimed at detecting economically motivated mislabelling of low value shrimp as high value shrimp species. Globally shrimp fraud is an issue of socio- economic importance and the method developed is towards tackling such fraudulent activity in seafood supply chain. Portable fish freshness sensor: Developed a prototype of portable fish freshness sensor for mackerel. It analyses colour variations of eye during storage. Images were captured and processing was done. Hough transform circle detection, drawing contours, converting RGB to HSV (hue, saturation, value) and defining pupil region were executed. Simultaneously cross validation was done by analysing K-value, TPC and TFC during storage. ❑ 11. Agricultural Human Resource Development The generation and diffusion of technology and management capabilities for more intensive and modernized agriculture and supporting services have become imperative. This can only be achieved by upgrading by the quality of human resources employed in agriculture. To produce quality and competitive human resource, Agricultural Education Division implemented plan scheme titled “Strengthening and Development of Higher Agricultural Education in India”. This helps maintain, upgrade and ensure quality and relevance of higher agricultural education through partnership with State Agricultural Universities (63 SAUs), Deemed-to- be-Universities (4 DUs) and Central Universities (4 CUs) with Agricultural faculties under the National Agricultural Research and Education System (NARS). The council assists the AUs to plan and coordinate higher agricultural education in the country.