 Water‐use efficient rice‐based, sugarcane‐based, soybean‐based, cotton‐based and maize‐based cropping systems suggested for optimum, sub‐optimum and sub‐sub‐optimum water availability situations in view of their social relevance in different agro‐ecological situations. • Design specifications of various surface irrigation methods like border‐strip, furrow and check basin have been standardized under varying soil and agro‐climatic situations in water scarcity areas. Irrigation in alternate furrows has produced encouraging results and need to be practiced for wide‐row spaced crops in Punjab. Alternate furrow irrigation in maize‐ chickpea cropping system saved 35% irrigation water on black clay soils at Belvatgi. Method has become highly popular in North‐Karnataka. Alternately alternate method of irrigation with high SAR waters developed by Bathinda center received attention of the farmers of Central Punjab. www.icar.org.in 81 2002‐2007 All India Coordinated Research Project on Weed Control 1. Title of the Project : All India Coordinated Research Project on Weed Control 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr. Jay G. Varshney, Director National Research Centre for Weed Science AICRP on Weed Control Maharajpur, Adhartal, Jabalpur ‐4 (MP). Tel : 0761‐2353001,2353138 Fax: 0761 ‐2353129 E‐mail: nrcws@sancharnet.in 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years): Weed survey & surveillance • District wise distribution of major weeds in India documented and published. • Resistance to isoproturon in Phalaris minor noticed in parts of Haryana and Punjab. Clodinafop 60 g and sulfosulfuron 20 g/ha were found effective in controlling isoproturon resistant P. minor. • Infestation of Malwa pariflora, Rumex retroflexus, Poa annua, Cornopus didymus and Polypogon monspliensis is increasing in rice‐wheat cropping zone. • Ipomoea pestigridis has become a serious weed of sugarcane in Haryana and U.P. • Leptochloa chinensis in rice, Rumex acetosella in wheat and Solanum sp. in potato are spreading. • Parthenium earlier a road side and wasteland weed is spreading into field and plantation crops. • Tsunami hit shores of Kerala were surveyed to explore the surviving weeds Cyperus javanicus, Ipomoea pes‐carpe, Acanthus ilicifolius, Acrostichum aureum were the weeds which survived the killer waves. I IWM in cropping system • In rice‐rice sequence, pretilachlor 0.75 kg or butachlor 1.25 kg/ha in kharif rice and butachlor 1.25 kg + almix 4.0 g/ha were effective in weed control and produced higher yields. • In maize‐groundnut system, atrazine 0.75‐1.0 kg in maize and two hand weedings in groundnut was most effective. • At Jorhat and Bangalore in rice‐rice sequence application of butachlor + 2,4‐D rotated with pretilachlor recorded the lowest weeds and higher yield in rice.