 The new mutations/variants of concern can be cultured and genomic studies would be undertaken to see the impact on vaccine efficacy and immune escape properties. We can protect ourselves and community from the pandemic by taking COVID appropriate behaviour such as using masks, physical distancing, hand hygiene and by vaccination. Upgrading vaccination drive at a quick but sustainable pace is important. COVID-19 vaccine has been touted as the most effective public health measure to end pandemic. The production of a new influenza vaccine each year demonstrates that it is possible to adapt existing vaccines to keep-up with viral mutations. Each preventive measure may have some disadvantages (no mask is 100 per cent effective, maintaining 6 feet distance is not always practical). Adding extra layers of protection may help overcome the limitations. Besides maintaining healthy habits of sleeping enough, eating healthy food, drinking plenty of water and exercising may keep the immune system strong. Key takeaways One needs to be vaccinated to be protected from infection. Use virus-killing disinfectants to clean phones, keyboards, door knobs, handles and faucets. Follow quarantine instructions fully when infected. 189 Health and Good Living POST COVID REFORMS Krishnamurthy V. Subramanian India’s rich culture and spiritual heritage and social norms play a pivotal role in shaping the behaviour of its citizens. Behavioural economics is a discipline that assesses how emotional, social and other factors affect human decision- making, which is not rational always. It provides necessary tools and principles to understand the norms affecting behaviour and their utilization to effect behavioural changes. C.R. Rajagopalachari once said knowledge that does not issue out in action is useless in Dharma and everybody should think about responsibility before entitlement. Dharma has to become a daily activity in our behaviour and we should build this type of culture and follow our duties which would lead to a prosperous economy. During pandemic it was not just the management of the impact of the pandemic, it started from the health crisis, spilled over to real economy and thereafter even impacted the financial sector. Economy is gradually recovering after Covid-19, but to achieve the vision of Economy@5trillion by 2045, India has to accelerate and sustain a real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth rate of 8 per cent. India’s economic policy toward a self-reliant India is presently characterized by a triangle or a tripod — (i) sharp focus on economic growth to complement efficient welfare by generating resources to fund welfare programs; (ii) growth Dr K.V. Subramanian, Former Chief Economic Advisor, Government of India, is a leading expert on the economic policy, banking and corporate governance. His idea of Thalinomics – what a common person pays for a vegetarian or a non-vegetarian thali – has been acclaimed as the Indian Big Mac Index.