 solani AG-1 IA: A colorimetric LAMP assay was developed using polygalacturonase gene which yielded visual confirmation of the Rhizoctonia solani AG-1 IA causing sheath blight. Development of yellow colour in the reaction mixture indicated presence of R. solani AG-1 IA. Sensitivity of the LAMP assay was as low as 1.65 fg/µl of template DNA and could effectively detect the pathogen from diseased plant tissues and soil samples. The LAMP assay was highly specific for R. solani as it did not show any amplification with fungal and bacterial out-groups like R. solani AG-1 IB, R. solani AG 2- 2IIIB, R. solani AG-3, R. solani AG-7, R. solani AG-8, Colletotrichum capsici, Sclerotium rolfsii, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, Trichoderma asperellum, Fusarium oxyporum, Curvularia prasadii, Cochiliobolus tuberculatus, Alternaria alternata, Colletotrichum CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 78 capsici, Ustilaginoidia virens, Sarocladium oryzae, Curvularia oryzae, Curvularia lunata, Mangaporthe oryzae, Rhizoctonia oryzae-sativae, Bacillus subtilis and Pseudomonas plecoglossicida, respectively. This study will help in designing an effective point of care diagnostic method for early monitoring of R. solani and thereby planning timely preventive measures against the pathogen. Streptomyces amritsarensis V31—a potential bioagent for control of phytopathogenic fungi: Streptomyces amritsarensis V31 showed high antifungal activity against a wide range of fungal pathogens including Alternaria alternata, Aspergillus flavus, Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici, Sarocladium oryzae, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, and Rhizoctonia solani. Metabolite extracted from S. amritsarensis V31 in different solvents inhibited these pathogens to different extent. Solvent extracts of S. amritsarensis V31 significantly reduced the incidence of rice-sheath blight both as preventive and curative sprays. Chemical profiling of the metabolites in DMSO extract of S. amritsarensis V31 revealed 6-amino-5-nitro- sopyrimidine-2,4-diol as the predominant compound present. It was evident from the LC-MS analyses that S. amritsarensis V31 produce a mixture of potential antifungal compounds which could inhibit the growth of different phytopathogenic fungi. The results of this study indicated that metabolite extracts of S. amritsarensis V31 can be exploited as a bio-fungicide to control phytopathogenic fungi. A simplified protocol for reversing phenotypic conversion of Ralstonia solanacearum: Ralstonia solanacearum have the problem of losing the virulence in laboratory conditions during prolonged biocontrol experimentation by a phenomenon termed as phenotypic conversion (PC). Since pure colonies of R. solanacearum contains cell fractions differing in virulence, it was considered worthwhile to find a way of selecting the cells with lower attenuation. Initial screening indicated inductive effects of Phyllanthus emblica on pure colonies. Along with P.