 Key words: kambhong, rice beer, rice husk, fish, pond Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh)791 102 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3493 Use of Toddalia asiatica for harvest of fish 3494 Fish catching by use of local vegetation Toddalia asiatica, locally called nuraiyendu, is crushed in water to make juice. This juice when mixed in the river or pond water brings the fish to the surface. This helps in easy catching of fish. Keywords: Toddalia asiatica, fish bait Adi tribals of Pasighat area uses local vegetation for catching fish. Extract of rugzi (Aesculus spp.) leaves is taken Shri T. Rajasekaran, S/o Shri R. Thirumalaisamy, Reddiarpatty, Kannivadi, Dindugul (Tamil Nadu) 624 705 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension Taki sading—stem bark is used as fish catching material in ponds 3495 Use of Khon for fish catching Leaf extract of tamu is used for fish catch- ing. It is quite eco-friendly out, which is mixed with the water of specific range, and the fishes of this range become unconscious. Other plant materials like diku temu (Polystichum spp.) tree, taki sading (Polypodium vulgare) shrub and ripek leaves are also used by these tribes. It is reported that water of that particular area becomes normal after 3-4 hr. This practice is eco-friendly and is being followed by tribes since time immemorial. Keywords: rugzi, diku temu, takisding, ripek, unconscious Conical-shape baskets are made to use fish catching. It is made of bamboo stick and tied with coir rope. It is cylindrical, wide mouthed and has Indigenous ferns—used as ethnic materials for fish catching called Rugji and used as vegetable as well, it is also used in stomach pain and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Shri Pandurang Majgeankar, Keri, Tiswadi, North Goa (Goa) 403 402 Content FISHERIES Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3496 Fish catching by using manas sharp edge. The structure helps catch the fish, which are trapped inside and cannot escape. Fishermen use this and feel comfortable when go for fishing. Keywords: khon, bamboo sticks,coir,fish catching During high tide water is passed through the check dam and blocked in small patch. This helps catch fish and prawns. This is considered an easy way for fish catching.