 It will be pertinent to mention that some of the equipment available in ICAR Institutes cost much higher than %40 million. In addition, most of the electronic based equipment available in different laboratories, demand high degree of maintenance costing a great sum of money. For effective quality and competitive scientific research, the current and future system requires effective use of scientific equipment allowing fair sharing by large number of researchers, maintain such equipment in good working order during their life cycle, encourage intra- and inter-Institutional, Inter-departmental and pan- India sharing of research facilities, reduce the financial burden on the Government by sharing expensive facilities, reduce redundant purchases of equipment and facilities, and increase the usage of facilities. Also, there is a need to explore the dynamics of research infrastructure funding and removal of different barriers which currently stall Nanaji Deshmukh Plant Phenomics Center (ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi) @) SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT POLICY or decelerate the effective sharing of such facilities both within and across the Institutions. Indian Council of Agricultural Research is strongly convinced that the expensive, state-of-the-art research facilities created in various Institutes be used very effectively and conveniently shared by Scientists of the same Institute or other ICAR Institutes. ICAR is also convinced that such elaborate research facilities be allowed to be shared by Scientists of other organisations and institutes in the country on a payment basis depending upon the costs involved in usage. Such an initiative will reduce the burden on the government expenditures by avoiding redundant purchases and the available equipment will be used very effectively for the kind of money spent on its purchase, maintenance and operation. A research ambiance with effective sharing of expensive scientific equipment should become a culture with convenience. It becomes equally important to avoid multiple purchases of costly and less used scientific equipment. Multiple purchases, however, shall be permitted if such scientific equipment are used for large number of samples and warrant purchase of multiple equipment for meeting the time and cost effectiveness and to avoid undue waiting periods. The number of samples tested in an equipment and its hours of operation must commensurate with the purchase, maintenance and operational costs. Maximizing these parameters will enhance the benefit cost ratio of the facility. Sharing scientific equipment will also help in collaborations between scientists of the same Institute or with the scientists of other ICAR Institutes and other National Institutes and Universities. Optimum number of hours of use of scientific equipment, based on the purchase and maintenance costs, may be made mandatory which would encourage researchers for sharing of scientific equipment with fellow researchers.