1%) with high Fe, Ca, protein content, dietary fibre and low in tannin content CFMV 2 (FMV 1118) (GN-9/ Gira) Hill Millet Research Station, Waghai, Navsari Agricultural University, Gujarat 2020 Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Odisha Resistant to leaf blast, foot rot, brown spot, grain mould and moderately resistant to neck blast, finger blast and banded blight. It is superior in respect to Ca, Zn, crude fibre and mineral matter CFMV-3 (Ekvijay) Hill Millet Research Station, Navsari Agricultural University, Gujarat 2021 120–125 32.17 Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra and Gujarat Suitable for profuse tillering, highly suitable for rainfed cultivation. Moderately resistant to leaf blast, finger blast, neck blast, foot rot and banded blight (PDI). Found superior in respect to protein (6.98%), showed good and high nutritional value Indian Farming 12 April 2023 weeding of the finger millet fields two or three times to eliminate weed hosts are known to reduce finger millet blast disease levels. • Excessive use of fertilizers is not recommended. A combination of organic and inorganic fertilizers at the recommended rate has been reported to minimize blast infection. • Intercropping has also been effectively used to manage blast disease. Finger millet planted with pigeon peas, produces good yields. Biological management: Use of biocontrol agents such as Pseudomonas fluorescens (0.6%) and Trichoderma harzianum (0.3%) as field spray as well as in seed treatment greatly reduce finger millet blasts. Chemical management: Seed treatment with Carbendazim (2 g/ kg) or Tricyclazole (2 g/kg) results in lower leaf, neck and finger blast incidence and enhances the yield of finger millet. Application of fungicides such as Edifenphos (0.1%), Carbendazim (0.2%) and Mancozeb (0.2%) with first spraying at the initiation of disease and the subsequent spraying at 15 days intervals give efficient management to the disease. SUMMARY Finger millet is a boon crop that may cope up with the present global warming, changing climatic conditions, etc. Although, blast disease comes up as the main problem for the cultivation of this crop, and most interestingly the disease can attack in different organs of host at different stages of development and thus attracts attention throughout the crop growing season by causing major crop losses. Most of the cost involved in finger millet cultivation is spent on protection aspect. So, it is highly needed to have an insight of the major diseases beforehand so that early detection and respective management actions might help in preventing the disease to get established in a large scale. Hence, the detailed discussion of various blast diseases hopes to help in the proper detection and efficient management, which will benefit the farmers and the whole human society. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: sthakurubkv1998@gmail.