 This cropping system is dominant in Indian states, such as Punjab, Haryana, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, and contributes 75% of the national food grain production. Even with balanced or integrated nutrient management practices, the productivity of rice and wheat in rice-wheat cropping systems has stagnated or declined recently due to the overuse of natural resources, which has resulted in soil fertility loss, multiple nutrient deficiencies, a decline in factor productivity, and a decrease in crop productivity in high productivity areas. In rice–wheat cropping cycle, inclusion of legumes crop is sustainable practice to sustain productivity, increase input use efficiency and to restore soil fertility under intensive cropping system. Legumes may be introduced in rice-wheat cropping systems with benefits beyond biological nitrogen fixation, such as nutrient recycling from deeper soil layers, reduced soil compaction, increased soil organic matter, the breakdown of weed and pest cycles, and reduced detrimental allelopathic effects. Summer mungbean crop incorporation in rice-wheat cropping systems is now more feasible because of the development of short-duration and uniformly maturing varieties in recent years. Taking into account the negative impacts of a continued rice-wheat cropping system on the productivity and health of the soil, 75 demonstrations of summer mungbean were conducted by KVK Delhi under cluster frontline demonstrations (CFLD) in rice- wheat cropping system in different villages of NCT Delhi region with the objectives to increase sustainability, diversification and food security of this cropping system. The CFLD is an important tool for transferring latest package of practices to farmers and the main objectives of this programme are to demonstrate newly released improved varieties, crop production and protection technologies and management practices on farmers’ fields in real farming situations. Through this method, it is possible to promote innovative technology that has a better potential for production under a particular farming system while simultaneously collecting feedback from farmers on the technology that has been demonstrated. In summer season, the improved packages of practices under CFLD programme enhanced productivity of mungbean by 22.6% over the farmers’ practices. Highest seed yield (11.00 q/ha) of summer mungbean crop was obtained under demonstrated fields as compared to farmer’s practice. The average seed yield across the demonstrations was 9.20 q/ha, much higher than the famers’ practices (7.5 q/ha). A higher net income of `29405.00/ha and a benefit-cost ratio of 2.2 were also recorded with improved packages of practices for summer mungbean (var. MH-421). The mungbean productivity at national level could be improved by bridging the yield gaps. This indicates the presence of Table 1.