 Postal Address: ICAR-CPRI, CPRI Road, Near HP High Court, Milsington Estate, Shimla, Himachal Pradesh 171001 ii. Name of the Director: Dr Narendra Kumar Pandey (Act.) iii. Email Address: director.cpri@icar.gov.in: Phone No.: 0177-2625073 2. Mandate and activities • Basic, strategic and applied research to enhance sustainable productivity, quality and utilization of potato. • Repository of genetic resources and scientific information on potato. • Transfer of technology, capacity building and impact assessment of technologies. • Disease-free nucleus and breeder seed potato production. • Coordinate research and validation of technologies through AICRP on potato. Activities • Collection, conservation and characterization of germplasm. • Development of high yielding varieties with climate resilience and stress tolerance. • Increase in potential production and productivity of Potato. • Standardization of technologies (on production/protection/post-harvest handling/ processing/value-addition) for enhanced productivity & profitability. • Training and capacity building of stakeholders. • Field demonstrations of technologies for their adoption. 3. Salient achievements • Conservation of more than 4000 germplasm. • Partnered with 26 international institutes belonging to 14 countries in deciphering the complex potato genome. • Developed and released 66 potato varieties with different traits viz. late blight resistance, heat tolerance, processing quality (6 varieties), multiple resistances to diseases and increased yield. • Developed & registered 23 improved breeding lines as elite genetic stocks having earliness, resistance to pest & disease and frost tolerance. • Developed pan India late blight forecasting model Indoblightcast. 76 ICAR Institutes Profile 76 • Developed and standardised virus detection and diagnostic techniques including dipstick assay for all important viruses. • Technology for boric acid (3%) treatment in seed to check soil and tuber borne diseases. • Developed IPM for management of all important diseases and pests. • A methodology for estimation of potato acreage and production in the northern Indo- Gangetic plains using crop modelling, remote sensing and GIS has been developed in collaboration with Space Applications Centre (ISRO), Ahmedabad. • Development of Seed Plot Technique which enabled seed potato production in sub-tropical plains. • Annual production of about 30000 q breeder seed of about 25 commercial varieties to facilitate supply of quality potato planting material in the country. • Developed aeroponic technique for production of healthy seed potato. • Carried out impact assessment of potato technologies to estimate socio-economic returns to research investments. • Dissemination of potato technologies through various extension programmes was undertaken at CPRI in order to bridge yield gap across the country. • Standardized the methods for nutritional profiling in potatoes.