 Eligible farmers register themselves for Pradhanmantri Fasal Bima Yojna (PMFBY) benefits, to minimize the risk from natural calamities. Horticultural Crops Fruit crops Ber Recommended varieties: Seb, Gola, Umran, Ilaichi, Kaithali, Mundiya General Management of orchard: Orchard should be clean and weed free. To get higher fruit yield it is recommended to place two honeybee colonies or hive/Acre in September month for better pollination because honey bees play important role in pollination. Irrigation should be applied regularly at 10-15 days’ interval. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 92 Plants should be covered with Kheenp (Leptadenia pyrotechnica) or Munja grass (Saccharum munja) during the December month to protect from frost. Intercultural operations should be done regularly in orchards. Foliar spray with Gibberellic acid 80 ppm during October and December month increases fruit size and stop fruit dropping. Nutrient Management: Apply pyrite or gypsum @ 6-8 kg/pit according to soil pH. Nitrogenous fertilizer should be applied in two spilt doses, first dose should be applied during July- August and remaining half dose of Nitrogen fertilizer should be applied during the fruit setting in the month of October-November. Need to apply light irrigation after application of fertilizers. Post flowering irrigation management: Need to be apply light irrigations during the September- October month at 10 days’ interval (flowering started in September month and fruit setting completed in October month). Irrigation should be stopped before 15 days of fruit ripening or maturity to harvest good quality fruits and helpful in reducing the problems like delayed maturity, fruit cracking, disease problem etc. There is need to regular intercultural operations after every irrigation to maintain soil moisture. Mulching with black polythene or organic mulch with dried plant material like buee or sarkanda or wheat straw to maintain the soil moisture. Foliar spray should be done with Kaolin 7.5% which is helpful in checking of evapotranspiration from plants. Insect-pest and disease management advisories: It is advised for soil racking to expose the pupae of fruit fly. There is chance of powdery mildew in October month, apply foliar spray of Kerathan @ 1ml/lit. water or Carbendazim ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 93 (Bavstin) @ 0.05% or Sulphur powder @ 0.2% at the time of pea size fruiting and spray should be repeated at 15 days’ interval to manage powdery mildew disease. Foliar spray with fungicide Hexaconazol 5% SC or propiconazole 5% SC @ 1ml/lit water to manage fruit rotting and black leaf spot of leaves. To manage fruit fly install Methyl eugenol trap @ 6 trap/Acre, use fruit fly resistant varieties namely Safeda, Umran, Ilaichi, Sanaur-1 and foliar spray with poison bait (100g Jaggery or molasses+2ml deltamethrin 2.8EC in one-liter water) on tree trunk at weekly interval. Foliar spray with Azadirachtin (0.3%) @ 2.