 Site specific nutrient management experiments: • The site specific nutrient management experiments were initiated to maximize the productivities of rice‐wheat, rice‐rice and soybean‐wheat system. Development of organic farming package in system based high value crops: www.icar.org.in 34 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management • The different integrated and inorganic nutrient management practices were tested in different systems. In maize‐potato‐onion system, experiments were conducted at Ludhiana, Indore, Kanpur, Faizabad, Akola, Kathalgere and Modipuram. The rice based cropping system was investigated at Bhubaneswar, Jorhat, Karjat, Navsari, Sabour, Chiplima, Kalyani and Jabalpur. Resource conservation Technology: • Under resource conservation technology programme, the effect of different tillages and planting management practices in rice‐wheat at Kanpur, Pantnagar, Varanasi, Sabour, Raipur and R.S.Pura were studied so as to improve crop productivity and soil health. Under rice groundnut cropping system conducted at Rajendranagar, 3 methods of seeding of rice, i.e. dry seeding, transplanting after normal paddling and transplanting after summer green manure crop, and 3 methods of ploughing & harrowing in groundnut i.e., ploughing once and harrowing twice, ploughing twice and harrowing thrice, and ploughing twice and rotavator twice were applied. Farming system Research: • Under farming system research programme, the resource characterization of different farming systems in the area of all 32 ECF sites have been undertaken. The study on cropping pattern, dairy and other enterprises, land use pattern, resource characterization, farming systems and constraints analysis have been undertaken. Identified the bio‐physical and socio‐economic factors responsible for constraints under different farming systems. www.icar.org.in 35 2002‐2007 All India Coordinated Research Project on Dryland Agriculture 1. Title of the Project : All India Coordinated Research Project for Dryland Agriculture 2. Name and address of the Project Coordinator : Dr.G. Subba Reddy, Project Director (Dryland) Santoshnagar, Hyderabad 500 059 Phone (O: 040‐24530828 Fax : 040‐24530828 E‐mail: pc‐dryland@crida.ernet.in gsreddy@crida.ernet.in 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years): • Rainfed Agriculture in India extends over 97 million ha across diverse agro climates, ecological situations and socio economic settings. In order to address the location specific problems, All India Coordinated Research Project on Dryland Agriculture (AICRPDA) initiated research on rainfed agriculture with 22 network centers and 8 Operational Research Projects (ORPs) for the last three decades.