 coli was isolated in 69% of the faecal samples and the rest cases of diarrhoea could be Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE attributable to other bacterial, viruses and non- infectious causes in the absence of specific tests. None of the calves were found positive for parasitic infestation due to routine deworming programme at the farm. The diarrhoeic calves of Gr. II (with ITK) had better improvement than animals of Gr. I (without ITK) in terms of faecal consistency, depression and dehydration. No parasitic eggs were found in faeces negating the parasitic infesttaion. On bacteriological examination, majority of the affected calves were found positive for entero- pathogenic E coli infection causing diarrhoea. In vitro drug sensitivity test revealed that Cotrimazine (trimethoprim + sulfadiazine) was highly (++++) effective against the causative bacteria. The result showed that almost normal level was noted in group II by day 3, whereas in the animals of GI continued to pass loose motion till day 3 and had mild to moderate depression and dehydration even by day 7. It was thus evident that calves of Gr II had a faster recovery as compared to those of Gr I, indicating significant supportive therapeutic effect of shisham leaf paste in diarrhoea. The non-occurrence of parasitic diarrhoea in the present study may be due to regular deworming programme being followed at the organized dairy herd, where the present study was carried out. E. coli was found to be the cause of diarrhoea in 69% of calves which is known to be the commonest cause for diarrhoea. The results of clinical trial conducted at Veterinary College, GBPUAT Pantnagar are given in Tables 6-9. The clinical scores of all the groups Fig. 3. In vitro antimicrobial profile against Pr. vulgaris Fig. 4. In vitro antimicrobial profile against S. typhi Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY of diarrhoeic calves revealed mild to moderate diarrhea on day 0. After 3 days of medication the clinical scores in all affected groups was > 1 and after day 7 it was 0 (normal) for faecal consistency and below 1 for depression and dehydration. Haemato-biochemical profile in different groups of diarrhoeic calves before medication (zero days) demonstrated significant increase in values of PCV, serum total protein, albumin, A:G ratio and potassium, and significant decrease in the values of serum glucose, sodium and chloride as compared to day 7 post-therapy values. The therapeutic efficacy of shisham leaf powder paste was 60% in diarrhoeic calves. However, therapeutic efficacy of shisham leaf powder paste in combination with standard therapy was 80%. The standard therapy alone was responsible for 70% recovery. Results obtained for treatment of diarrhoea using shisham leaf paste at Nagpur Veterinary College MASFSU are presented in Tables 10 and 11 faecal examination revealed mixed infestation of Trichuris, Strongale and Moneizia spp.