 The prevalence of exceptionalities/ disability among children is being studied through snowball sampling. The causes of exceptionalities are being studied by interviewing the family members of the exceptional child. On the basis of situational analysis, intervention modules are being developed and intervention is being provided to rural adolescents in empowering them educationally, socially and economically and legally. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 180 weavers who are the ultimate users of these technologies. Many value added products using natural dyes were developed by each center. Data base on rural women and indigenous knowledge For empowerment of rural women as subsistence-generating units, the Home Science Extension component developed database of 27,000 rural women of 41 agro-climatic zones on participation, decision making and time use pattern. The intensity and nature of participation is depending on crop and time allocation is primarily activity specific with highest time use during peak periods of agricultural operations. The decision making pattern is largely governed by joint decisions in various spheres of life. Data bank has been developed of 150 scientifically validated indigenous knowledge on maternal health. Nine technology kits consisting of multimedia resource materials have been developed for knowledge empowerment of extension functionaries. Village adoption with a mission One village adoption approach for integrated improvement in quality of life of rural families is being followed by each centre. In these adopted villages the self- help groups have been established for empowerment of women. Under AICRP on Home Science Ergonomic of farmwomen’s drudgery in home, farm and allied activities was conducted. On the basis of difficulty scores farm activities were assessed as very drudgery prone, but most of the dairy and household activities were assessed as moderately tiring by the farmwomen. As regarding the health status of farm-women, it was observed from the findings that the maximum number of women had low weight, thin cylindrical body, average physical fitness status but good aerobic capacity. The women in excellent health status were found in very small number. Results of the ergonomic cost of the IMPROVED TECHNOLOGIES TESTED FOR DRUDGERY REDUCTION selected activities showed that except cotton picking, dibbling and tea plucking activities physiological stress for performing selected farm activities was found very high and above the permissible limits of workload for women worker. Similarly physiological workload for collecting and bringing fodder and milking animals under dairy activities and fetching water and mud plastering of house under household activities was found above the permissible workload. Muscular stress for performing the selected farm, dairy and household activities were also found high due to the unnatural postures (bending and squatting) adopted by the farmwomen.