 SUMMARY Millets, well-suited to Jharkhand’s climate, can become a staple crop, providing resilience against environmental challenges and ensuring food security for communities. The emphasis on millet-based recipes aligns with the need for sustainable agriculture in Jharkhand becomes a platform not just for cooking skills but also for preserving and passing down culinary wisdom from one generation to the next. Encouraging the cultivation and consumption of millets can have positive implications for the environment and the overall well-being of Jharkhand’s villagers. In conclusion, millet-based recipe contests in Jharkhand go beyond the kitchen; they represent a celebration of cultural heritage, a boost to local economies, and a step towards sustainable living. Embracing millets in everyday cooking can foster a stronger connection to the land, promote health, and contribute to the resilience of rural communities in Jharkhand. *Corresponding author email: pragya.bhadauria@icar.gov.in Table 2. Diversity in use of millet Range Gutru Soso Khaksitoli 2-4 varieties 24% 23% 59% 4-6 varieties 64% 68% 34% >6 varieties 12% 9% 7% This data represents the distribution of responses across different ranges of varieties of use of Madua for three selected villages: Gutru, Soso, and Khaksitoli. Each row corresponds to a specific range, and the percentages indicate the proportion of each category within that range. All three selected villages show millets are predominantly consumed as a staple food, diverse millet-based recipes are popular within households. In Gutru and Soso village, maximum population i.e 64% and 68% respectively, use Madua in 4-6 variety of dishes whereas in Khaksitoli, maximum 59% population use Madua for making 2-4 variety of dishes. Varieties of millet-based recipes presented during the contest Cultural significance of millet Millets are culturally embedded within Jharkhand’s indigenous communities which play a_ significant role in various cultural rituals associated with birth to death and honouring ancestors. This survey study resulted in 100% of women using Madua grain on some specific occasion. Maximum (90%) population use millet specifically Madua in Karma and Jitiya festivals whiles other (10%) use it in Sarhul puja. Indian Farming Status of habitat conservation of millets The conservation of millets involves seed collection, multiplication, seed distribution and farmer-to-farmer exchange mediated through the traditional seed storage system. In this study, it was found that in all three villages, majority of population (60%) produce millet in their field and conserve them through traditional approach for future production. Source of knowledge about learning This study revealed that rural and farm women perceived information about millet cultivation and processing from both formal and informal sources like SHG members, family member, neighbours, local leaders, KVK training, TV, Radio, social media etc.