 In addition to socio-economic and ecological advantage, such fruits have numerous medicinal properties as its different plant parts have pharmacological activities. Therefore, these fruits are rich in minerals, vitamins and phyto-chemicals which need to be harvested for commercialization and utilization of wasteland simultaneously. Biological activities of minor fruits are given in Table 1. Varietal wealth Selection of plant species and their varieties for production is important. The crop must have one or another characters like deep root system, summer dormancy, high ‘bound water’ in tissues, reduced leaf area, sunken stomata, thick cuticle, wax coating of pubescence, presence of latex, and ability to adopt shallow, rocky, gravelly and undulated wasteland. Some underutilized crops are widely grown and used in their centers of origin, but are “neglected” by regional and international markets. Crops not suited to long distance transport and commoditization are often ignored by plant breeders and agricultural researchers, which limits the number of named cultivars and the creation of new varieties with traits suited to a broader range of growing conditions. Some highly nutritious plants could play a larger role in reducing malnutrition if they were eaten over a longer period of the year or if cultivars were available for different growing conditions. At present, research work on collection, characterization, evaluation and conservation of underutilized/alternate fruits have been initiated at several SAUs and ICAR institutes and their regional centre and high yielding quality varieties were developed. Varietal wealth of potential fruit crops is given in Table 2. Value added products A large quantity of underutilized fruits produce goes waste due to unavailability of adequate storage facility and lack of knowledge about value added products. Proper storage facility like cool storage, CA and ZECC storage can reduce the post-harvest loss to greater extent and can improve the farm income. Various processed products are being made by the people utilizing their acquired traditional knowledge like sun drying, pickling etc. However, with the application of modern techniques, the quality of products could be improved considerably. The pre-treatment of many fruits with hormone and harmless chemicals results in better quality end products. Solar drying and electric tray dehydration of fruits and vegetables help to reduce dust load on the product and retain natural colour. Malnutrition in resource poor areas of semi-arid region is a major problem particularly in women and children. Fruits like tamarind, custard apple, bael, khirni, karonda, Table 2.