 Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 183 Manilkara kauki - H- Khirni G- Khirni M-Kauki T-Palai Kan-Hadari Mal- Manilkara O-Talvrynta The root and bark of the tree are considered astringent and are given in infantile diarrhoea. They are also used for Beri-Beri. Ground leaves are used in paultices for tumours. The seeds are considered tonic and febrifuge. Medium sized tree ocassionally cultivated in different parts of India for ornament and its fruits. The flowers in dense cluster near ends of branches, white. 184 Melaleuca leucadendron Cajuput tree H- Kayaputi B-Cajaputte M-Cajaputa T-Kaiyappudai The oil is used internally as an expectorant in chronic laryngitis and bronchitis and as carminative. It acts as an anthelmintic. The oil relieves toothache if introduced into holocarious teeth. The bark is used for stuffing cushions, pillows. An evergreen tree of small or moderate size with pendulous branches, sometimes attaining a height of 21m. It is indigenous to Myanmar, Cambodia, Thailand and Malaya peninsula to Australia. 185 Mentha crispa Water mint - It is used as emetic, stimulant and astringent. The crisped leaved mint is digestive. It is used in gall and stomach disorder. It is used also for flavouring foods and liquor. A variable perennial herb with weak glabrous to distinctly pubescent stems probably cultivated in Indian gardens. The species is a native of Europe and has become naturalized in several other countries. The leaves are considered to be chance mutant of aquatic species. 186 Mentha virdis or M. spicata Spear mint H- Pudina B- Pudina M- Pudina The herb is considered stimulant, carminative and antispasmodic. A sweetened infusion of the herb is given as remedy for infantile troubles, vomiting in pregnancy and hysteria. The leaves are used in fever and bronchitis. A glabrous perennial, 30–90 cm high with creeping rhizomes, indigenous to north England, but grown all over the world. It is cultivated in Indian gardens. It is widely cultivated through out the plains of India. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 361 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 187 Micromeria biflora Indian wild thyme - It is an aromatic herb reported to be used by Mundas as an application for worm infested wounds in cattle. Dwarf herb usually 5–10 cm high found in tropical and temperate Himalayas from Kashmir to Bhutan and Punjab, Bihar, North-Circas, western ghats and hills of south India ascending up to 2100 m. 188 Mimosa pudica Sensitive plant H- Lajwanti B-Lajjavati M-Lajalu Tel-Attapatti T-Tottalvadi Kan-Lajja Mal-Tintarmani O-Lajkuri Decoction of the root of the plant is considered useful in graves and other urinary complaints. The paste of the leaves is applied to glandular swelling.