 Use of green manuring e.g. Dhaincha, Moong, Cowpea, Sunhemp etc. xxvi. Application of balance dose of fertilizer on the basis of soil testing. xxvii. Provision of subsidy on diesel. xxviii. Promotion of custom hiring system. xxix. Use of bio fertilizers e.g. Rhizobium, PSB, Azotobactor, Azolla, Blue green Algae, Mycorrhiza xxx. Subsidy of transport xxxi. Use of Gobar/Bio gas xxxii. Promotion of zero tillage technology. xxxiii. Promotion of DSR xxxiv. Use of Organic fertilizers and Manures xxxv. Promotion of integrated farming system xxxvi. Synergise blending of crops/horticulture, dairy, fishery, and poultry to provide regular income. xxxvii. Protected cultivation of vegetables and flowers with Micro irrigation xxxviii. Constitution of FPO to create market. xxxix. Effective procurement strategies to procure on MSP xl. Regular region wise weather forecasting. xli. Provision for practicing kitchen gardening for arban households and poor people. xlii. Facilities of more warehouses and cold chain. xliii. Post harvest management to reduce crop losses. xliv. Required value addition and processing. xlv. Market linkages and reforms xlvi. The sericulture or other allied activities could be the supplementary/additional source of income to the small farmers. Structure of modules to be designed for each district. It is the general opinion that single enterprise alone cannot substantially enhance the income of farmers. However there may be few exceptional cases such as high value horticultural crop. Hence, the modules for enhancing the income of farmers and dependent agriculture and non-agricultural rural mass should involve IFS and forward support for marketing the produce at remunerative cost. Some of the hypothetical modules suggested in the figure needs to be optimised for their income and feasibility in different regions. xlvii. Crop diversification: Diversification of crops like fruits, vegetables and other field crops allocated to portion of land in total field so that, farmer can get income year round. 345 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Also when one crop fails, the farmer can get income from other crops. xlviii. Direct marketing of fruits to big store chains, residential colonies etc. so that intermediaries are avoided and farmer can get income at the rate of retail prices. xlix. Irrigation method to save water: Creation of irrigation, micro-irrigation facilities, water conservation, rain water harvesting approaches would lead to stability and sustainability to citrus cultivation. Resource management to reduce cost l. Soil suitability has been delineated by NBSSLUP- has to be utilized by others for implementing the action plan for doubling the farmers income. li. Micro irrigation should cover all sugarcane fields by 2020 (Nala irrigation to drip irrigation a lot of investment). lii.