 A total of 31 patent applications received from scientist(s) through their respective institutes, including the back-logs, were examined for their status - provisional or complete, assignment and various techno-legal components, and applicants were advised to modify/improve application in respect of specifications, claims and other elements, where applicable and as appropriate. The applications complete in all respect, were filled at the Patent Branch Office, Delhi. In terms of institute-wise filing of patent application, IARI topped with 9 applications, followed by NDRI (4), IVRI and ILRI (2 each) and CMFRI, CPRI, CTRI, CSSRI, NIRJAFT and NCIPM filed one application each. One patent entitled, “ A new bed for mushroom cultivation by utilizing biogas waste slurry and straw for improved mushroom cultivation” has been granted by the Patent Office, Kolkata. This technology has been developed at the NIRJAFT, Kolkata. First examination report has been provided by the Patent Branch Office, Delhi in respect of another patent application “No.3422/DEL/95” submitted by CIAE, Bhopal, for further action. Research Collaboration, Consultancy and Contact Research Services vis-à-vis IPR Agreements for IPR component and share in collaborative research: The collaborative project proposals referred by the DARE/various Divisions were examined for IPR component and appropriate comments were offered to suitably reflect Council’s intellectual property rights in respect of resource investments and expected technology output. This intervention helped in convincing some of the proposed collaboration partners to agree to file joint applications for patenting of technology generated and are ready to share reasonable royalty with the Council on equal or proportionate basis. Various Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) and Workplans were similarly examined and suitable alterations suggested. Sharing of royalty within the organization: All matters related to consultancy and contacts for research, training or other services, including the sharing of charges among scientists and institutes, referred by various Divisions were attended and benefit sharing verified/recommended as per ICAR guidelines/Johl Committee Report. Backstopping/Services on Subjectmatter Subject-matter inputs for the ICAR and inter-ministerial backstopping included some primary IPR issues on patents, sui generis system on protection of plant varieties, geographical indications, biodiversity, traditional knowledge, biosafety, WTO agreement on agriculture and sanitary and phytosanitary aspects, etc. Institutional Capabilities and Capacity Strengthening Nomination of IPR nodal officers: The process of nominating IPR nodal officers by all ICAR institutes/Bureau/Project Directorates/National Research Centres was speeded up to facilitate streamlining of IPR matters at the institute level.