 The subject is further complicated by merely any reference values available with regard to diagnosis of nutrient constraints in khasi mandarin orchards. The establishment of citrus orchard on steep slope without contour trench planting or terracing has accelerated the menace of citrus decline by exposing to comparatively more acidic and infertile sub-surface having poor nutrient reserve to support the required nutrition of plants. No single effort has so far, been made to explore the entire stretch of Northeast India by a single research group. Over the years, many surveys have been conducted to determine nutrient constraints of citrus orchards of this region. From these studies, almost any conclusion can be drawn. The nutrient constraint diagnosis hence, seldom addresses the problems that originally existed in the field, therefore, it is not sufficient to inflict the desired response of fertilization. Such differences in the outcome of diagnosis can be overcome by developing suitable nutrient diagnostics, very specific to a cultivar, soil type, and climate. The studies, however, have confirmed that large amounts of fertilizers are not always essential for maximum yields. Guides for Nutrient Constraints Identification The nutrient constraints by Khasi mandarin are conventionally identified through deficiency symptoms, leaf nutrient standards and soil fertility rating guide with each having its own merits or demerits. Mobility of nutrients is one such factor which undergoes a definite redistribution during the stage and plant enters into the reproductive phase from vegetative phase. Accordingly, various nutrients are classified as very immobile (B and Ca), very mobile (N, P, K, and Mg), immobile (Fe, Cu, Zn, and Mo), and slightly mobile (S). Such diversification in nutrient mobility within a plant is the reason, why specific plant parts show the characteristic deficiency symptoms. The symptoms on fruits are noticed for very immobile nutrients like B and Ca. Development of visible symptoms November–December 2023 41 Various expression of Zn deficiency Mn Deficiency K Excess N Deficiency Mo Deficiency Mg Deficiency P Deficiency B Deficiency Fe Deficiency N Toxicity Cu Deficiency Fe+Zn Deficiency K Deficiency Nutrient deficiency symptoms in citrus (Morphological descriptors) is accountable to metabolic disorders which cause changes in micromorphology of plants before these symptoms are identifiable. Fruit symptoms (B for example) are more reliable as hard fruits dry due to lumps in the rind caused by gum impregnations. Symptomologies of nutrient deficiencies: Nitrogen deficiency first appears on older leaves and later proceeds towards the younger leaves, characterized by light yellowish green leaves, veins slightly lighter in colour than the tissues in between, new leaves small in size, and thin fragile light green leaves.