 The technology will help in economic upliftment of vendors by reducing their dependence on the utility grid. Disease detection in soybean crop leaves Disease free leave Anthracnose (multiple spots) SMV FLS (multiple spots) YMV RAB (multiple spots) MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT Plastic-based hanging type feeders suited for all breeds of Goats: The hanging type plastic feeder has been developed with help of mild steel, PVC pipes and FRP sheet. The feeder is designed in such a way that no feed/ bhusa/green will fall outside the tray, so that feed/fodder loss is reduced to negligible. The width at ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 113 be shifted whenever required and height is adjustable so that same feeder can be used for different goat breeds by hanging it at different heights as per requirement. Total cost of plastic-based hanging type feeder with fiber sheet (iron mesh mounted) is ₹8000 and hanging type feeder without fiber sheet (wall mounted) is ₹6000. Image-based disease identification in soybean: Anthracnose, frogeye leaf spot (FLS), rhizoctonia aerial blight (RAB), soybean mosaic virus (SMV) and yellow mosaic virus (YMV) are major common soybean diseases that seriously affect soybean yield in India. The symptoms of these diseases are also visible on soybean leaves which are detected with the help of experts or support systems, i.e. leaflets, etc. A deep learning algorithm for identification of the soybean foliar diseases has been studied. About, 3127 RGB images dataset of anthracnose, FLS, RAB, SMV and YMV-affected and disease-free leaves of soybean are collected from the agriculture fields. The Mask R-CNN detection algorithm is used for the detection of soybean leaf diseases by introducing the Resnet-50 module. The pre-processed images (512×512 pixels) are used as input in Mask R-CNN. The number of epochs, training step per epoch, training and validation, and learning rate are 80, 500, 8 and 0.001, respectively. The detection accuracy is more than 85% at 0.90 level of minimum detection confidence. The accuracy can be further improved by increasing the size of the image dataset. ❑ MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 114 Hawaijar making mechanized system: Hawaijar is a traditional fermented food of North-East India prepared from soybean. The steps involved in traditional method of making hawaijar are soaking, boiling and fermenting. The unit operations considered in the mechanized system are soaking, steaming and incubation. The designed capacity of the developed mechanized batch type system is 10 kg. The system consists of a circular structure integrated with different parts to accomplish all the unit operations in a single system. There are six trays with nine containers each for fermenting cooked soybeans. The parameters considered for designing of the system included physical properties of the soybean, increase in volume after soaking and boiling and operating temperature and pressure of the system.