 Collaborative Research Projects (14) received in CG from various ICAR institutes to carry out the research activities with various CG Centres have been processed/approved. Activities carried out with CGIAR System and its Centres, during the reported period are given here. Collaborative research project consisting components (a) ‘Studies on certain ecosystem services in multi- varietal orchards of mango’, and (b) ‘Conservation and sustainable use of jack fruit diversity: sustainable livelihood, food security and ecosystem services’ was approved. Collaborative research project on ‘Stress Tolerant Rice for Africa and South Asia (STRASA) Phase-III’ was approved. Collaborative research project ‘Development of Lentil cultivar with high concentration of Iron and Zinc’ funded by ICARDA under the CGIAR Harvest Plus Challenge Programme 2015-16 (Bio- fortification programme) was approved. Collaborative research project between ICAR and Cereal System Initiative for South Asia (CSISA) Phase- III of International Maize and Wheat Improvement Centre - CIMMYT was approved. Collaborative research project on ‘Improvement of Hulless barley for food purpose’ to the Dryland Cereals Competitive Grants 2015 was approved. Collaborative research project on ‘Tropical Legumes III-Improving livelihood for small holder farmers: enhanced grain legume productivity and production in Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia’ in collaboration with ICRISAT was approved. The IIMR and CIMMYT collaborative research project on ‘Climate Resilient Maize for Asia for Ensuring Food Security and Enhancing Income for Resource- poor Farming Communities in the Tropics’ (CRMA) was approved. Collaborative research project ‘Piloting and upscaling an innovative underground approach for mitigating urban floods and improving rural water security in South Asia’ in collaboration with IWMI, Sri Lanka and CSSRI, Karnal was approved. Collaborative research project on ‘Improvement of banana for small holder farmers in the Great Lake Region of Africa’ (Indian Component-Breeding for improved bananas with Fusarium wilt (Fusarium oxysorum fsp. cubense) resistance) in collaboration with National Research Centre on Banana, Trichy and Bioversity International, Rome, was approved. ACIAR collaborative research project No. CIM/ 2014/081 on ‘Mitigating the effects of stripe rust on wheat production in South Asia and Eastern Africa’ and Memorandum of Subsidiary Arrangement for research project was approved. UNEP/GEF Full Size Project (FSP) GEFSEC ID: 5137 ‘Mainstreaming agro-bioversity conservation and utilization in agricultural sector to ensure ecosystem services and reduce vulnerability, was approved. Collaborative research project to study molecular genetics of Cotton Bollworm (CBW) entitled ‘Genetics of insecticide and Bacillus thuringiensis toxin (Bt toxin) resistance in Helicoverpa armigera’ was approved.