 The performance parameters of rice transplanter with deep placement fertilizer applicator such as fertilizer Liquid urea spraying system retrofitted on straw baler: One of the possible ways to increase the digestibility of poor quality roughages like rice and wheat straw is urea treatment. The urea treated straw is liked by cattle and helps to increase the milk production and body weight of animals. Conventionally, the straw is mixed manually with urea solution. The handling task can be minimized substantially by treating straw with retrofitted urea solution spraying system on straw baler. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 86 MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 87 An urea solution spraying system for straw baler (rectangular type) was developed to pre-treat paddy straw during baling operation. The urea solution having concentration of 8% was used with the system for on the go spraying of urea solution on loose straw during conveying to compression chamber of baler. The capacity of straw baler with urea spraying system is 109 bales/h for paddy at straw load of 8.3 t/ha. The cost of retrofitted urea solution spraying system is ` 30,000 and cost of urea treatment is ` 0.50/kg of straw. The weight and moisture content of bales increased in the range of 50–70% after application of urea solution. The urea treated bales were wrapped with polyethylene sheet and stored for three weeks at room temperature. The baled wheat and paddy straw samples were analyzed for crude protein (CP) of the feed. Urea solution treatment increased CP in all the treatments and ranged from 9.14 to 13.41% for wheat and 8.93 to 12.28% for paddy straw. On the basis of overall nutritional analysis, treating the straw with urea solution (8 kg/100 l) for paddy straw (50% moisture content) and wheat straw (70% moisture content) was recommended for straw baler with the system. Animal drawn multi-crop planter cum herbicide applicator: A three row multi-crop planter cum herbicide applicator was developed by AICRP on UAE (IGKVV, Raipur centre) for planting of seeds and application of herbicide simultaneously. It consists of a frame, seed hoppers, seed metering devices, seed delivery tubes, inverted T type furrow openers, sprayer tanks, boom and nozzles. Sprayer nozzles, seed metering mechanism, hoppers and seed delivery tubes are mounted on inverted T type furrow openers, and can be adjusted for row spacing of 230–240 mm. The performance of implement was evaluated for sowing of soybean, greengram and fodder maize crops. The effective field capacity for soybean, greengram and fodder maize was 0.183, 0.121 and 0.124 ha/h, respectively. Cost of the implement is ` 15,000. The cost of sowing operation per ha was ` 440, ` 666 and ` 650 for soybean, greengram and fodder, respectively. Animal cart mounted solar sprayer: A bullock drawn solar powered sprayer was developed to utilize the available solar energy.