 Above all, ICAR introduced on October 2, 1975, an Agricultural Research Service for its scientists which will enable a young scientist enter- ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE ing a research career to get the highest salary possible in public services without changing his or her field of specialisation and without shifting to managerial and administrative posts merely for receiving a better salary. This should help to 'de-glamourise' management posts and leave such positions only in the bands of those who have a real aptitude and ability in the field of co-ordination and research management. Opportunities for career advancement, irrespective of the occurrence of vacancies, through a system of assessment should lead to each scientist competing with his or her own past rather than with colleagues and to the acceptance of the principle that "all rights accrue from a duty well done". Horizontal and vertical mobility has been rendered possible and helping tribal and neglected regions has been made a service duty. The ICAR has also started the practice of providing training in management to Directors of Central Institutes. When the Central Staff College for Agriculture becomes fully operational and starts regular training programmes for staff members at different levels, there is likely to be consi- derable improvement in the efficiency of institute and project management. To summarise, the introduction of an Agricultural Research Service for the scientists of ICAR from October 2, 1975 has the following major aims: (a) Foster co-operation in the place of unhealthy competition. (b)' Enable scientists to get the highest salary possible within the system while re- maining rooted to work in their respective discipline/field, thereby eliminating both the undue importance attached in the past to research management posts and the quest for such positions purely for advancement of salary. (c) Promote an outlook where solving a specific field problem through inter-disci- plinary team, work is regarded as the primary goal of research than the worship of a discipline or publication of papers. (d) Promote horizontal and vertical mobility and adequate attention to neglected and backward areas. (e) Link rights and responsibilities and instil through the five-year assessment system the conviction that dedicated and efficient discharge of responsibilities alone would be the means of securing professional advancement. It is probably too soon to expect that the changes in attitute visualised in the new policies leading to scientists competing with their own record rather than with each other and to the acceptance of the principle that rights and responsibilities are inseparable, become part of the working culture of the organisation.