 Presently, only 15 % of the loan is disbursed as investment credit. Provisioning farm credit avenues on marketing, storage and consumption. All financial benefits, mainly the subsidies in different forms, should be provided and transferred directly to farmers account through e-governance. a. In line with self-liquidating production loans, short duration marketing loans may also be considered. b. Increase the proportion of investment credit. c. Operationalize credit linked warehousing facilities at APMC level. d. Promote pledge financing through a network of rural godowns and negotiable warehousing receipt system to reduce distress sale 6. Doubling the current level of exports Share of India in world exports is very low and hardly 1.5 % on an average during the last decades. Farm level awareness on SPS measures is still very poor. Double the current level of 1.70 lakh crores worth of agri exports within 5 years. Boost to RTAs(Regional Tariff Agreements) to address the issue of Non Technical Barriers such as TBT and SPS Measures and to attract investment a. Promote Crop Stewardship Programs, Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) and Certification procedures. b. Promote Global Commodity Boards like California Walnuts, Washington Apples for our own farm produce like Talala Kesar Kheri or Kutchi Dates. c. Promote quality consciousness and health safety issues among farmers for both domestic and international trade. 7. Encouraging agro-forestry Potential of agro- forestry lies untapped in the state Barren lands and field bunds can be utilized such as: Boundary plantation Silvi- pastoral system Agri-Horti system Horti- Pastoral system, Industrial- agroforestry system. a. Tree species with 8-10 years rotation age such as Ailanthus (match stick tree), araduso (Melia dubia) can be taken up in marginal lands and affected soils. b. Encourage tissue culture labs to produce clones which may further reduce the rotation age upto four years. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 166 Sl Issue Status Action Plan (Including policy No reforms) Implementing Strategy 8. Harnessing solar potential Solar infrastructure is not affordable by majority of the farmers even after the prevailing subsidy. Making solar infrastructure affordable. Ensuring incomes by assured power purchase agreements a. Conduct training programmes for improving awareness on on-farm solar infrastructure. b. Mandating Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) for 25 years with feed-in tariffs of Rs 8-9 / unit. c. Devise strategies in as such a way that solar infrastructure need to benefit small and marginal farmers as well. 9. Promoting Agro-tourism Rural/ Agricultural Environment+ Farm Commodities + Tourism Services= Agro tourism As of 2014-15, the potential of Indianagri-tourism industry is Rs 4,300 crore, while the global agri- tourism market is $10 billion USD. Though prospects are immense, agro- tourism in Gujarat is still at nascent stage.