 Environmental Technology & Innovation 27 (2022) 102498 Fig. 2. Seasonal distribution of atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration, NDVI and NEE averaged for the period 2009–2020 over Indian region: Kharif (June to September), Rabi (October to February) and Zaid (March to May). Monthly variation of CO2 over India averaged between 2009 and 2020. The 7-day back trajectories at different points in different regions of India at a surface level during Kharif (June to September), Rabi (October to February) and Zaid (March to May) are also shown. Only two trajectory points are shown in each illustration for clarity reasons. plants is also reduced and thus, we observe higher NEE in the rabi season as compared to that in kharif. The eastern coast regions receive rainfall during the northeast monsoon, resulting in major agricultural activities during these months. Rain helps to wash out most of the atmospheric CO2, causing the lowest CO2 concentration in the PI region during this season, in addition to the low CO2 air transported from the Bay of Bengal during the season, as discussed before. Besides, during the onset of kharif (June/July) and towards the end of rabi (January), the association of CO2 and NDVI is reversed as an increase in one might offset the other (Gupta et al., 2019). The highest CO2 concentration in the agricultural zaid season might be because of fallow croplands due to the unavailability of farm irrigation facilities. This decreases vegetation cover, as reflected by the lower NDVI values in this season. However, an increase in the land surface temperature might lead to loss of soil moisture, causing the release of trapped CO2 in soils due to accelerated decomposition of SOM. In addition, our trajectory analysis show that the air parcels carrying atmospheric CO2 mostly traverses large land area (Fig. 2) before reaching to each region as described in this study (Figure S1). The atmospheric circulation therefore builds a strong concentration of CO2 over the identified regions in India. For instance, the air mass is travelled through the land regions, about 70–80% of air mass there. Nevertheless, 7 A. Singh, K. Abbhishek, J. Kuttippurath et al. Environmental Technology & Innovation 27 (2022) 102498 Fig. 3. The monthly distribution of biomass burning emission (GFEDv4.1s) inventory and CO2 concentration at different regions of India [Indo-Gangetic Plains (IGP), Peninsular India (PI), North-West (NWI), Central India (CEI), North-East India (NEI) and Hilly (HIL), as illustrated in Figure S1]. The data are averaged from 2009 to 2020. the PI and NEI receives air masses also from the oceanic regions and is the reason for the relatively lower CO2 in those regions. Although, vegetation acts as a carbon sink, its strength decreases with a reduction in cropping during the zaid season, which further promotes such high concentration.