 Chief Publicity and Public 13 Junior Editor Relations Officer 14. Publicity Officer 4. Chief Production Officer 15. Assistant Publicity and Public 5. Production Officer Relations Officer 6. Business Manager 16. Assistant Production Officer 7. Assistant Business Manager 17. Publicity Assistant 8. Communication Specialist 18 Technical Information Officer (Extension) 19. Sales Promotion Officer 9. Editor 20. Proof Reader-cum-Supervisor 10. Assistant Editor 21. Publication Assistant 11. Editor-cum-Information 22 Senior Publicity Assistant Officer 23 Sub-Editor !CAR HANDBOOK 0!' TECHNICAL SERVICES " 24, Language Assistant 34, Grapho type Operator 25, Translator (Embosser) 26, Printing Officer 35, Sr Hindi Translator/Jr Hindi 27 Assistant Professor (English) Translator/Hindi Translator 28, Senior Binder 36, Kardex Operator 29 Binder 37, Copy Holder JO. Media Assistant 38. Press Supervisor Exhibition 31. Media Operator Officer 32, Compositor 39, Exhibition Assistant 33, Junior Compositor 40, Public Relations Officer GROUP VIII- MEDICAL AND PARAMEDICAL POSTS I. Senior Medical Officer 5, Midwife 2, Medical Officer 6 Pharmacist ), Nursing Sister 7, Radiographer 4, Staff Nurse/Nurse GROUP JX- HOUSE-KEEPING POSTS 1. Manager (Hostel Services) ~ Chief Cook 3. Catering lncharge " ]CAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES APPENDIXIH Assessment Procedure for Grant of Merit Promotion or Advance Increment(s) to Technical Personnel CATEGORY I I. The following criteria will be adopted for the assessmentofthe technical personnel of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. • Professional performance in relation to the duties and tasks assigned. • Spirit of co-operation and team-work and support to scientific work. Personal/behavioural abilities/attributes. 2. Emphasis in the assessment will be on the contributions of the individual in relation to the requirements of the job and the duties assigned to the post for which he/she was recruited. Procedure for Assessment 3. Assessment of the technical personnel shall take into consideration the followings; The material furnished in the Assessment Profonna ( enclosed). • CCRs for the last 5/10 years as the case may be. 4. The technical personnel being assessed shall carefully fiU in the enclosed proforma keeping in mind their activities in the past Sn ll O years, as the case may be. 5. The Reviewers shall be the immediate supervisors of the technical personnel concerned. In cases where the Reviewer has supervised the work of the Reviewee for a very short period of time, say less than six months, he shall be required to consult other scientists/technical persom1el who may have also supervised or worked with the Reviewee for longer periods. Directors win issue separate orders indicating clearly the Reviewer for each post. 6. After the proformas have been completed by the technical personnel being assessed (Reviewees), they will be passed on to the Reviewer.