 India is contributing to 22% of the world’s milk production surpassing that of the US, with a greater projected increase in the near decades, which makes it imperative to integrate various stakeholders and communities through policy formulations in such a way that Indian milk production becomes market ready for competing in the global arena. This can be achieved through the use of sustainable and hygienic practices, appropriate advisory systems for dairy farmers and governance-based efforts to organise the milk producers in cooperatives. This altogether may facilitate achieving social justice. Dairying and nutritional security Dairy products are rich in key elements such as protein, calcium, vitamins, and minerals, all of which are vital to human health. Nutritional security refers to the constant availability, affordability, and accessibility of safe, nutritious, and culturally acceptable food to meet the nutritional needs of all individuals. Despite higher production of milk in India and higher nutritional value of milk and dairy products, India have comparatively lower per capita consumption of milk since 1961 and still there has been no significant change in the scenario. Current ranking of all the G20 nations by the quanta of milk export in the year 2020 Milk export scenario of the G20 nations from 1961–2020 Disparity in trend in per capita milk consumption among the top and least milk consuming nations in G20 from 1961–2020 Ranking of G20 nations by per capita milk consumption for year 2020 Indian Farming 59 June 2023 Achieving nutritional security is crucial for the overall health and wellbeing of individuals, communities, and nations. Malnutrition, which can be caused by a lack of access to nutritious foods, can lead to stunted growth, impaired cognitive development, and increased risk of disease, among other health problems. Dairying has the potential to play a significant role in achieving nutritional security, as dairy products are an excellent source of essential nutrients. In many parts of the world, dairy products are a staple food and a significant source of dietary protein, calcium, and other micronutrients. Moreover, dairy products are versatile and can be consumed in a variety of forms, such as milk, cheese, yogurt, and butter. Dairy products can make a significant contribution to the human diet, especially in areas where access to other sources of high-quality protein and essential nutrients is limited. Dairy foods play an important part in providing nutrient and energy dense sources of calories for infants and children. In many parts of the world, dairy products are the major source of food, and they provide a significant portion of the daily caloric intake. For example, in India, milk and milk products contribute to about 10% of the daily caloric intake and about 30% of the daily protein intake. Dairy products can also play a crucial role in alleviating malnutrition, which is a significant public health concern worldwide.