 Punjab is regarded as an agrarian economy despite the fact that the contribution of agriculture to State GDP has declined from more than 50 per cent in 1960-61 to around 24 per cent in 2014-15. About two-third population of the state lives in rural areas and around 35 per cent of the total work force is engaged in agriculture. The State of Punjab, the land of five rivers, is located in North-West of India at 35° Latitude and 74° Longitude and is blessed with almost plain and fertile soil. The State is divided into 22 districts. All towns and villages are electrified and well-connected. Of the 4.2 million hectares of cultivated area, almost 99% is irrigated by a vast network of tube- wells and canals. Punjab produces an important portion of India’s food grains and contributes a major share of the wheat and rice stock held by the Central Pool (a national repository system of surplus food grains). Much of the state’s agricultural progress and productivity is attributable to the so-called Green Revolution, a technological movement launched in the 1960s that introduced not only high-yielding varieties of wheat and rice but new agricultural practices also. Punjab has an inland subtropical location, and its climate is continental, being semiarid to sub- humid. Summers are very hot. In June, the warmest month, daily temperatures usually reach about 400 C and above. In January, the coolest month, daily temperatures normally range from 7-10 °C. Annual rainfall is highest in the Siwalik Range, which may receive more than 1,150 mm, and lowest in the southwest, which may receive as low as 380 mm; state wide average annual precipitation is roughly 500 mm. Punjab state is broadly divided into 3 agro-ecological zones depending upon temperature, rainfall, land topography, soil type, groundwater resources, etc. These zones along with their agro-climatic conditions, area covered and some problems relating to crop patterns, productivity, water resources, etc. Punjab state is a leading state in agriculture production and development. With mere 1.53 per cent of the geographical area of India, it produces around 20% of wheat, 9% of rice and 5% of cotton production of the country. Punjab is regarded as an agrarian economy despite the fact that the contribution of agriculture to State GDP has declined from more than 50 per cent in 1960-61 to around 24 per cent in 2014-15. About two-third population of the state lives in rural areas and around 35 per cent of the total work force is engaged in agriculture. Consequently, agriculture is one of the most 22 Punjab 452 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 important sources of livelihood to a very large section of population primarily living in rural areas. Due to its backward and forward linkages and multiplier effects on the growth of other sectors of economy, accelerating growth in agriculture and enhancing farm income are the most important twin objectives of the policy.