 The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Government of India adopted a 7-point strategy to protect the interests of farmers and encourage them to move forward on the path of higher income and sustainable agriculture. Government of India enhanced the Minimum Support Price at levels of 1.5 times of the cost of production and implemented various schemes like PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, e-NAM, Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, Agri Infrastructure Fund, FPO, PKVY, Micro Irrigation, etc. Indian Council of Agricultural Research activated its entire network of Institutes, ATARIs and 731 KVKs to ensure effective implementation of the various schemes and initiatives from 2016-17. This has led to substantial increase in the incomes of farmers across the country. I am happy to learn that ICAR has come out with collection and compilation of experiences of 75000 successful farmers who have doubled their income during 2016- 17 and 2020-21. I am sure that the successful stories of these farmers will motivate and encourage fellow farmers to increase their income. I congratulate all concerned in ICAR and Agricultural Extension Division for bringing out such a useful document for the benefit of the farmers as well as the policy makers. (Narendra Singh Tomar)  v dSyk'k pkS/jh KAILASH CHOUDHARY Ñf"k ,oa fdlku dY;k.k jkT; ea=kh Hkkjr ljdkj MINISTER OF STATE FOR AGRICULTURE & FARMERS WELFARE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA MESSAGE D oubling Farmers Income has become an agenda of the nation ever since its announcement by Hon’ble Prime Minister of India in February 2016. Government of India has strongly pursuaded the vision of the Prime Minister and has extended every possible support needed for achieving the ambitious goal. The country has all the necessary natural resources and climate for agri-based activities. The central and state governments have launched and implemented several farmer- friendly programmes and schemes to support the dreams of the farmers and their livelihoods. These programmes and schemes have created the much needed input and output related supportive mechanisms and infrastructure on the ground. Equally important is the strong human resource of agricultural scientists, extensionists and educationists nurtured over the years for developing and transferring agricultural technologies suitable for diverse agro-climatic and natural conditions. I am extremely happy to note that the Indian Council of Agricultural Research has always led the nation in its pursuit of science and technology driven development of agriculture. Its frontline extension system of Krishi Vigyan Kendras has been the most dynamic, vibrant and credible cutting-edge level farm science institution that is shaping the lives of farming community. The technology driven doubling of farmers income has always been a possibility and is proved beyond doubt by this document based on 75000 farmers success stories.