 The National check variety Punjab Tinda is an old variety and shy bearer, and significantly lower in yield as compared to the new variety Pusa Raunak which has been released and recommended by Delhi State Seed Sub-committee for commercial cultivation in National Capital Territory of Delhi during spring summer season. It was subsequently notified by Central Sub-committee on Crop Standards, Notification and Release of Varieties of Horticultural Crops during 2019. Pusa Raunak (DRM-26) Pusa Raunak is developed from highly heterozygous local material collected from Sonipat, Haryana. Selfing and individual plant selections were carried out to purify the material and develop the variety. Vine length of this variety is 1.0-1.5 m. Leaves are alternate, dark green, deeply lobed, and hirsute. Plants are monoecious. The staminate and pistillate flowers are solitary, axillary and yellow in colour. The ovary of female flower is hairy. Young fruits at marketable stage are green, shiny, uniform, flattish round in shape, 5 cm in diameter, medium in size with an average weight of 60 g each and covered with soft hair. Flesh is white, tender, less-seeded and has good cooking quality. Fruits turn flattish round towards seed maturity and the fruit colour fades and becomes pale green. The seeds are flattish round in shape, medium in size and black in colour with ridged border. Fruits become ready for first harvesting in 55-60 days after sowing during spring- summer season. Average yield under normal conditions is 7.5 t/ha. Cultivation It can be grown successfully on all type of soils but prefers well-drained loam and sandy loam soils rich in organic matter. The seed rate is 4-5 kg per hectare. As a spring-summer crop, it is sown from mid-February to first week of March. The seeds are sown in the hills 45 cm apart on the slope of channels prepared at a distance of 1.5 m. The spacing between channels is increased to 2.5 m when sowing is done on both the sides. Two to three seeds are sown 2 cm deep in each hill. About 15-20 tonnes of well-rotten organic manure per hectare before field preparation and 50 kg urea, 120 kg single super phosphate and 60 kg muriate of potash at the time of last ploughing should be applied. Another dose of 50 kg urea should be top-dressed in two equal split doses, 30 and 45 days after sowing. Foliar application of urea (1%) may be done during early growth and at the time of fruit development. When seedlings become 8-10 cm tall, thinning should be done to keep 1 or 2 seedlings per hill. Performance of Pusa Raunak Pusa Raunak (DRM-26) has been tested in yield trial at several locations from 2011 to 2015 along with check Punjab Tinda. The results indicated that Pusa Raunak Pusa Raunak – A high yielding round melon variety for spring summer season Round melon [Praecitrullus fistulosus (Stocks) Pangalo] is also known squash melon/ Indian squash/ Tinda. The tender, green, non-fibrous immature fruits are cooked as vegetable.