 Weed Control Robots: Robots that control weeds in fields employ a variety of techniques, including mechanical weeding, heat treatment, and precise herbicide administration. By navigating crop rows, identifying weeds, and applying treatments selectively, these robots potentially reduce the need for manual labour and herbicides. Soil Monitoring and Cultivation Robots: Soil Monitoring Robots are fitted with sensors and probes evaluate soil properties such as pH, compaction, nutrient levels, and moisture content, offering crucial information for precision farming. The precise performance of soil preparation and cultivation activities by cultivation robots, such as robotic tillers and weeders, encourages the best possible crop growth and production. Application of AI in Agriculture Sector in India. https://iaeme.com/Home/journal/IJAIRD 163 editor@iaeme.com Fig 2: Remote Sensing in Agriculture Source: Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming (ICAR, 2024) Initiatives Taken by Govt. ➢ ‘Kisan e-Mitra’ is an AI-powered chatbot to assist farmers with queries about the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. This solution supports multiple languages and is evolving to assist with other government programs. ➢ National Pest Surveillance System is a system for tackling the loss of produce due to climate change. This system utilizes AI and Machine Learning to detect crop issues, enabling timely intervention for healthier crops. ➢ India's first food and agribusiness accelerator, AGRI UDAAN, is run by the Department of Science and Technology (Government of India) with support from Caspian Impact Investment and coordinated by NAARM, a-IDEA, and IIM-A, CIIE. Through rigorous coaching, industry networking, and investor pitching, the program focuses on accelerating scale-up stage Food & Agribusiness firms. 200 agricultural startups registered for the accelerator program, 40 startups were mentored, 8 startups in their value chain received end-to-end capability through AGRI UDAAN, and 3 of the 8 mentored startups secured finance totaling around ~2.5 Cr INR. These are only a few of the impacts of AGRI UDAAN. Among the focus areas are supply chain technology, innovative food technology, precision/smart agriculture, and sustainable inputs etc.(Anupam Anand et al., 2019) ➢ Centre for Innovation Incubation and Entrepreneurship (CIIE) is a collective of interventions in the space of innovation-driven entrepreneurship in India. The Centre for Innovation Incubation and Entrepreneurship, IIM Ahmedabad, is an academic facility dedicated to innovation and entrepreneurship research, where it all began. The Tanuja Talwar, Parul Talwar https://iaeme.com/Home/journal/IJAIRD 164 editor@iaeme.com research and education that the Center does is still supported by CIIE. 3000 jobs are created, 500 ventures are taught, incubated, or advanced, 100 startups receive initial funding, and many other benefits are derived from CIIE.