 (2)sometimes animals experience uneasiness after feeding on green fodder contaminated with pesticides. Cattle owners administer tamarind water to animals for getting instant relief. (3)Animals suffer intense pain when they develop stones in their stomach. To treat this, the bark of jamun (Eugenia jambolana) is ground and fed to the sick animal. The stones are expelled along with the animals stool (Himachal Pradesh). Lal (1998) 74 Treatment of fever in animals Bark of Rayan (Soymida febrifuga) tree collected and powdered separately is given to animals along with water for 4-5 days continuously to cure the fever. (The action of Somida febrifuga tree’s bark as antipyretic requires verification (Bhatkodu). Bhagore (1992) 75 Tea, pepper and ginger for pyrexia During the monsoon, cattles are often affected by fever. In such a condition, the cattles feels cold and starts shivering. The food intake of the cattles decreases considerably and passes yellow urine frequently. As a remedy to this fever, the following ingredients are used : tea leaves (Camellia sinensis), black pepper (Piper nigrum) and dry ginger (Zingiber officinale). Approximately 100 g dry tea leaves, 25 g powdered black pepper and 25 g dry ginger powder are dissolved in two glasses of water and boiled. After cooling, the solution is given to the cattle. This is given once a day for two days and the cattle is relieved of its fever. This has been used traditionally for many years and is used as a remedy for fever by over 80% percent of the farmers in this region (Surendranagar, Gujarat). Gadhvi (1999) 198 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 76 Indigenous treatment for fever and cold in animals A hot soup made of zira and garlic is analgesic and antipyretic in nature which is fed to animals suffering from cold and fever. It improves digestion and thus protects body from common cold and fever (Lahaul valley, Himachal Pradesh). Verma, (1998) 77 Treatment of fever/ loosened teeth and pneumonia The farmers give smoke of rice husk, cotton sack, black til or barley for the treatment of fever/loosened teeth and pneumonia (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh). Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 78 Treatment for fever (i) To relieve body pains and fever 100 g dried root powder of vacha (Acorus calamus) mixed with 200 g of wheat flour is given orally twice a day to animals. This is a widely used practice in Changar area of Kangra District (Himachal Pradesh). Kumar (2000-2001) 79 Curing fever, cough, anorexia and bloat Three fistfuls of perumarundhu (Aristolochia indica) leaves along with roots, 15 g of dried ginger, 15 g of arisithippili (Piper longum), 15 g of omam (Ptychotia jowan) and 15 g of turmeric are pounded together and made into three boli. One boli may be given in the morning, another in the evening and the third the next morning. This treatment is believed to cure fever, cough, anorexia and bloat.