 Normally the residency period for direct incubatees is for one year, which may be extended based on the nature of the business and progress of company development. Whenever the start-up firms mature enough to operate a profitable business, the services and concessions provided, shall be withdrawn. The client, apart from the registration fee to the Incubator, makes monthly payments for office space and pilot plant operations at a subsidized rate than the rates prevailing in the market. After exiting from the incubator, mentoring is continued on need basis. The centre provides an array of services from idea stage to the product launch. Incubatees are assisted in translating their idea to a technology and further to a market ready product or service. They can also select among the showcased technologies developed in the internal research laboratories and enter into a licensing deal. These technologies are further classified according to their Technology Readiness Level (TRL). Other services like patent portfolio management, fund mobilization, financial advisory, test marketing, prototype testing, feasibility analysis etc. also would be provided by the ZTM-ABI. Databases and software on IP search, market data analytics, funding sources etc. also are available in the Business incubation centre. The Technology Transfer/Professional Service Functions undertaken by ZTM-ABI Centre, ICAR-CIFT during 2015-19 are depicted in the figure. The ZTM-ABI differs from traditional Business Incubators as it is tailored specifically for technology- based industries and is operational at an area with a high concentration of Fish farmers 5% Commercial fishing unit manufacturers / operators 12% Seafood Processors 21% Food manufacturers 27% Retailers 18% Marketing firms 6% Exporters 11% Categories of entrepreneurs incubated at ZTM-ABI Centre. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 Identification of suitable Technology Preparation of Business plans/ Project reports Mobilising Finance Capacity Building Setting up of infrastructure Access to business services Branding / IPR Protection Networking Marketing (percentage) Challenges faced by entrepreneurs Challenges faced by small/medium business owners. Indian Farming January 2020 5 Table 1. Constraint redressal mechanism of ZTM-ABI Key challenges How ZTM-ABI Centre helps Value to the entrepreneur Identification of suitable technology A set of management metrics named Cost-effective management of advanced Technology Readiness Level (TRL) has technologies and research results, and this been devised to help in the assessment has become an essential entity to ensure of the maturity period of a particular the success of new initiatives in a field technology within a specific system and operational environment.