 Partially balanced t-designs: Developed two series of partially balanced t-designs using cyclic development of initial block(s) and their association with t-packing designs was demonstrated. Strengthening web application for incomplete split plot designs: Web application of construction of incomplete split plot designs was updated and module on analysis of incomplete split plot designs with completeness at main plot level and/or subplot level is made available at http://drsr.icar.gov.in/ispd. Alternative sampling methodology for estimation of area and production: An alternative sampling methodology for estimation of area and production of horticultural crops developed by ICAR-IASRI under CHAMAN project, accepted by Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India for adoption in all the states of the country is adopted by Department of Horticulture, Government of Haryana under the Technical Guidance of ICAR-IASRI and estimates of area and production of horticultural crops are being generated using this methodology since 2019-20 onwards. Prediction model for GIGANTEA Protein: Developed a support vector machine-based prediction model for predicting GIGANTEA proteins in plants. Based on the developed methodology, a prediction server GIpred was established which is freely accessible at http://cabgrid.res.in:8080/gipred/ for proteome-wide recognition of GIGANTEA proteins. Machine learning-based models for identification of abiotic stress responsive miRNAs: Developed machine learning-based models for identification of abiotic stress responsive miRNAs and Pre-miRNAs in plants, where the algorithms such as support vector machine, random forest, extreme gradient boosting and adaptive boosting were employed coupled with K-tuple nucleotide compositional features as numeric descriptors. Based on the proposed approach, a prediction server ASRmiRNA (http://cabgrid.res.in:8080/asrmirna/) for the identification of miRNAs and Pre-miRNAs associated with the abiotic stress response of plants was also established. Computational model for identifying genes responsive to six abiotic stresses: Developed a computational model for identifying genes responsive to six abiotic stresses viz. cold, drought, heat, light, oxidative, and salt. The predictions were performed using the machine learning models viz. support vector machine, random forest, extreme gradient boosting and adaptive boosting, where the autocross covariance (ACC) and K-mer compositional features were used as input. ASRpro, is made freely available (https://iasri-sg.icar. gov.in/asrpro/) for predicting abiotic stress-responsive genes and proteins. Social Science Computational Model for Discovery of DNA Binding Proteins in Plants Developed a novel computational model for discovery of DNA binding proteins in plants (PlDBPred) that play crucial roles in numerous cellular processes.