 Agenda 2: Confirmation of the Proceedings of Special Meeting of Vice-Chancellors of Agricultural Universities held on October 4, 2010 Since no comments on the proceedings were received, the proceedings of Special Meeting of Vice-Chancellors of Agricultural Universities held on October 4, 2010 were confirmed. Agenda 3(a): Action Taken Report on the recommendations of Conference of Vice- Chancellors of Agricultural Universities and Interface with ICAR Directors held on February 17-18, 2010 ADG (EQR) presented the Action Taken Report. It was accepted after the discussion. Agenda 3(b): Action Taken Report on the recommendations of Special Meeting of Vice- Chancellors of Agricultural Universities held on October 4, 2010 ADG (EQR) presented the Action Taken Report which was accepted after discussion. It was pointed out that in order to find out the cost of producing an agriculture graduate, a well designed proforma may be provided to the universities. The Director, NAARM, Hyderabad and Director, NCAP, New Delhi will jointly develop the proforma and provide in two months time. [Action: Director, NAARM & Director, NCAP] ADG (HRD) presented the report of Dr. H. S. Gupta Committee constituted for rationalization of fee structure and bench fee for foreign students, review of ICAR scholarships/fellowships, initiating ICAR’s Post-Doctorate Fellowships and grant to 4 students during RAWE programme. The discussions were held and suggestions of members were invited. The President, AIUA requested the members to mail their suggestions within 15 days so that these could be passed to the Committee for further improvement. The Committee was requested to submit its final report within a month time. [Action: All VCs; ADG (HRD)] Agenda 4: ARS/NET Reforms and SAUs’ Performance Dr. N. K. Tyagi, Member, ASRB made a comprehensive presentation on ARS/NET reforms being taken up and SAUs performance during the last year. After discussions, a committee was constituted comprising Dr AK Singh, DDG (NRM) with 5-6 VCs of AUs to find out the ways to incentivise the less-preferred disciplines in agriculture in order to attract the better students. The Chairman appealed the Vice-Chancellors to have a situational analysis at university level to find out the pointers for performance evaluation of universities at national level and submit the report within 3 months time. [Action: All VCs; DDG (NRM)] Agenda 5: Education Quality Assurance and Reforms: Issues and Strategies Agenda 5.1: National Agricultural Education Project Dr. R.K. Mittal, ADG (EQR) informed that the committee constituted under the Chairmanship of Dr. Panjab Singh, Former Secretary, DARE & Director General, ICAR to suggest reforms and renewal of higher agricultural education, held its initial meetings including consultations with stakeholders of Agricultural Education on November 29 & 30, 2010 at New Delhi and on January 19 &20, 2011 at Bangalore. A National Consultation was also held on February 21, 2011.