 Gandhian economics places importance to means of achieving the aim of development with non-violent, ethical and truthful in all economic spheres, which is also a basic concept of integrated farming systems having maximum complementarity without any competition. Mahatma Gandhiji advocated trusteeship, decentralization of economic activities, labour- intensive technology, and priority to weaker sections. Integrated farming systems developed with judicious mix of two or more enterprises emphasises for achieving household level food, nutrition, round the year income, self-employment, and sustainability especially for marginal and small farmers. The details of the IFS have been discussed elsewhere in this publication. 3.6. Sand-dune Stabilization The field techniques adopted by ICAR-CAZRI for sand dune stabilization follows systematic processes; (i) fencing of the shifting dune areas for their protection against biotic interferences, (ii) fixing barriers in parallel strips or in checker-board pattern (Fig. 4, 5, 6, 7) with locally available brushwood or grass materials to act as micro-wind breaks. Geometry of species depend upon whether wind directions, (iii) afforestation by direct sowing of grass seeds and transplanting seeding of indigenous and exotic species, (iv) planting of grass slips or seeds of grasses or leguminous creepers on the leeward side of the micro-wind breaks and (v) continuous and proper management of such dune till the cost of input is recovered in about 10-15 years duration. ICAR-CAZRI identified various plant species in different rainfall zones. Fig. 3. Haveli renovation in Parasai-Sindh watershed; Masonry drop spillway (rectangular weir) and embankment along with corewall was constructed in 50 m breached area. Water harvested in Haveli during the monsoon period. Source: ICAR-Central Agroforestry Research Institute, Jhansi 83 3.7. Shelterbelt Plantation Shelterbelt plantations are vegetative barriers of tree/shrub/bushes. This technique is suitable for sandy plain areas. Trees were planted according to geometry of sheleter-belts at several sites for nearly 800 km on roadsides, on the state highways, along the railway tracks and also in tube well irrigated area of Lathi in Jaisalmer district and in IGNP area of Mohangarh. Orientation of the shelterbelts should be more or less perpendicular to the prevailing winds. Plantation across the wind of a 13 m wide tree belt, interspersed with 60 m wide grass belt provided the better impact. Eight years old plantation of three different types in Jodhpur condition showed effectiveness to reduce wind velocity and erosion up to 2 to 5 H distance and there was 50% reduction in wind erosion. Maximum benefits were derived from series of shelterbelts planted parallel to each other at distance of 10-15 times the height of the central row of trees.