 Out of the 400 datasets, 350 (88%) were useful for the analysis. First, the three regions (Bono, Bono East and Greater Accra) were selected purposively (refer to the study area under 3.1 for reasons). Secondly, one district each was purposively selected from the Bono and Bono East Regions, whereas two were selected from the Greater Accra Region (refer to Figure 1 and study area under 3.1 for details). Thirdly, based on the sample frame by various extension officers in the districts, 200 households were randomly selected from two Extent of urban agriculture and food security 439 districts in the Greater Accra Region, whereas 200 households were selected from the two districts in the Bono and Bono East Regions. In Bihar of India, the urban population alone is estimated to be 11,758,016 (Government of India, 2017). Following the Yamane (1967) approach, the representative sample of 5% error Figure 1. Map of the study area IJSE 48,3 440 rate was 400 urban households. However, given that not all urban households will be into UA, we sampled 350 households involved in UA through a multistage sampling procedure, but only 300 (86%) were useful for analysis. First, Bihar was purposively selected. Secondly, three districts from both North and South Bihar were purposively selected. UA households were randomly selected in the third stage. It is important to note that, the data was collected by a team of trained enumerators using a structured questionnaire from August to September 2019 (for Ghana) and November 2019 to January 2020 (for India). Data was collected on household information and demographics; crops and plants cultivated and livestock owned, marketing channels, household income and expenditures, food security status by the use of the HFIAS measurement tool and the perception of respondents on the importance of UA. 2.3 Summary statistics of data Table 1 shows the variables used in analysing the factors that influence the extent of UA, the effect of the extent of UA on food security (models 1 and 2, respectively). From Table 1, the researchers selected 18 different variables under four main sub- headings, namely, demographic, economic, health and nutrition and institutional factors. Specifically, age, education, household size, primary job, animal rearing, land size, food expenditure, business, safe food, fear of pesticides, nutritious food and distance were all hypothesised to influence the extent of UA positively. Likewise, the extent of UA participation, education, experience, location, animal rearing, land size, business, extension contact and distance were hypothesised to influence food security positively. However, age, household size, primary job, household expenditure and contract were all expected to influence food security negatively. It should be pointed out that the expected sign column in Table 1 represents the various hypotheses used in this study.