 These underutilized crops not only play a pivotal role in bolstering agricultural diversity but also contribute significantly to food security while preserving traditional knowledge. Embraced by indigenous communities, these crops serve dual purposes by not only providing nutritional benefits but also contributing to traditional medicine systems, effectively addressing various health issues such as digestive disorders, inflammation, and respiratory ailments etc. The vast array of underutilized horticultural crops in the Northeastern hills represents a treasure trove with enormous therapeutic potential for a variety of ailments, underscoring the importance of exploring and conserving these valuable species. Table 1. Therapeutic diversity of underutilized horticultural crops in NE region of India Common Scientific Family Distribution Plants Therapeutic utility Image name name parts used Carambola Averrhoa Oxalidaceae All north Fruit and Fruit juice is used carambola eastern leaves to counteract fever, states lower high blood sugar and high blood pressure, and antidiarrheal effects. Burmese Baccaurea Phyllanthaceae Tripura and Fruit, bark, Fruits — to treat skin grape ramiflora Lour. Meghalaya leaves diseases, improves Indian Farming immunity, decreases severity of cold and flu. March 2024 Indian Farming 62 March 2024 Common name Scientific name Family Distribution Plants parts used Therapeutic utility Image Khasi cherry Docynia indica Rosaceae Khasi hill (Meghalaya) and Sikkim Fruit To treat common ailments. Prophylactic for combating enteric diseases. Spine gourd Momordica dioica Fabaceae Meghalaya & Mizoram Fruit and leaves Treating diabetes, cancer, and neurodegenerative diseases. Tamarillo Cyphomandra betaccln Cav. Solanaccae Nagaland, Mizoram and Meghalaya Fruit Maintains blood pressure, lowers cholesterol levels, helps weight loss and to treat cold, sore throat and headache. Roselle Hibiscus sabdariffa L. Malvaceae Mizoram & Meghalaya Leaves and fruit To treat hypertension and microbial infection. Turkey berry Solanum torvum Sw. Solanaceae All north eastern ststes Fruit To treat fever, wounds, tooth decay, reproductive problems and arterial hypertension and in cases of liver and spleen enlargement. Indian pennywort Centella asiatica L. Apiaceae Tripura Whole plant Leprosy, kidney trouble, ulcers, body aches, asthma, gastric, catarrh, elephantis. Vegetable fern Diplazium esculentum (Retz.) Sw. Athyriaceae Nagaland & Meghalaya Leaves To treat diabetes, smallpox, asthama, diarrhea, rheumatism and wounds. Table 1. Continued Table 1. Continued Common Scientific Family Distribution Plants Therapeutic utility name name parts used Khasi cherry Docynia indica Rosaceae Khasi hill Fruit To treat common (Meghalaya) ailments. and Sikkim Prophylactic for Spine Momordica Fabaceae gourd dioica Tamarillo Cyphomandra_ Solanaccae betaccin Cav. Roselle Hibiscus Malvaceae sabdariffa L. Turkey berry Solanum Solanaceae torvum Sw.