 Improvement in crop growing environment that was resulted by use of patella, helped to harvest 23.73 q/ha rice which was 13.25 q/ha when preparatory tillage was not done. Use of kurur, however, gave a yield of 23.18 q/ha. CONCLUSION The results of the study showed that use of kurur for land levelling was as good as improved land leveler (patella) for establishing stand of rice crop. However, farmers reported that the improved land leveller is more efficient and less time consuming as compared to kurur. But kurur was reported to be local made, cheaper and compatible to the small sized draught animals, available in the area. Table 1. Matrix scoring for assessment of kurur in comparison with improved land leveller N=20 Parameter Kurur Bullock drawn improved land leveller (patella) Cost effectiveness 8 (-) 2 Output 4 8 Simplicity in use 8 3 Availability 8 2 Type of land where used 8 2 Choice of the farmer 8 4 Experiment Results obtained showed that use of patella was advantageous in maintaining land slope effected by levelling compared to kurur (Table2). An area of 0.07 ha was covered using patella which was 0.052 ha by using kurur. Soil removal was also lesser with patella (11.25 m) as compared to kurur (13.2 m). Results on yield attributes reveal that the highest germination of seeds (89.9%) and plant population (38/m 2) were recorded where improved land leveller was used followed by plant population of 37/m 2 under T 2 where kurur was used. In the control plot (T 1), where land levelling was not done, the plant population was 34/m 2. However, there was no significant difference in plant population between the treatments. The highest number of tillers (392/m 2) was recorded due to use of improved land leveller and FARM IMPLEMENTS Code : 2132 Title of the ITK : Guddeli to uproot ginger Description of the ITK : Good harvest with total recovery of ginger with less power is obtained by use of guddeli at harvest. It is easy to operate and cost of operation per hour is 300. The cost of guddeli is Rs 60 per piece. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Pandu, Girgitpally, Vikarabad, Ranga Reddy (Andhra Pradesh) Location of use of the ITK : Girgitpally Village, Vikarabad mandal, Ranga Reddy (Andhra Pradesh) Experimenters : Dr B.Sanjeeva Reddy, Scientist, (Sr. Scale, FMP), Dr G. Nirmala, Scientist, (Sr. Scale, Ag Extn), and Dr V. Maruthi, Senior Scientist (Agron), Central Research Institute Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad METHODOLOGY PRA and field study The Girigatepalli village of Vikarabad mandal of Ranga Reddy district, where the ITK is being practised, was chosen for validation during 2002_03. The farmers in that village were stratified as per the size of the land holding into marginal (< 1.0 ha), small (1_2 ha), medium (2_4 ha) and big (>4 ha) farmers. The farmers for this investigation were selected by stratified random sampling, Fig. 1. Gudelli- an indigenous tool for harvesting of ginger representing 10% under each category.