 As a measure to reach out to cross sectional agencies and entities involved in the development of agriculture and the farmers in the country, ICAR entered into MoUs with the National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC), New Delhi, Indian Farmers Fertilizers Cooperative (IFFCO), New Delhi; Ministries of MSME for entrepreneurial development, and MoFPI for technical support and capacity building in food processing and promotion of one-district one product programme of Government of India. Agrinnovate India Limited has successfully been able to turn a new leaf in the recent past by initiating effective partnerships with ICAR institutes and private companies. The company’s revenue from operations touched ` 153,76,950 for the first time, as against 3,057,630 during the previous year. With a revamped website and increased efforts at bringing technologies developed by 35 ICAR institutes under AgIn’s purview, nearly 340 technologies were added to the list of technologies ready for commercialization through AgIn. Supporting basic and strategic research: The National Agricultural Science Fund supports basic and strategic research in agriculture. The main objective of the scheme has been to build capacity for basic, strategic and cutting-edge application research in agriculture and address issues which can be solved by intensive basic and strategic research jointly by a team of organizations/ institutions. The scheme has already funded 205 projects, mostly in consortium mode. At present, 66 projects are in operation and out of which 62 are multi-institutional in nature. During the last one year, NASF had taken many new initiatives like the inclusion of allele mining, metabolomics, precision agriculture, application of sensors and nanotechnology in agriculture and policy in agriculture as new strategic areas; and one mega-project on captive breeding of hilsa Tenualosa ilisha: Phase II. Besides supporting, reviewing, monitoring and evaluation of the ongoing projects during the year, NASF evaluated 66 new full projects proposals received under different themes. A total of 27 new projects were approved during the period. Besides having more than 70 research publications in reputed journals, NASF had seven patents and 10 technologies. Training and capacity building: As a new initiative, the Competent ICAR Institutes organized Trainers Development Programme for Developing Masters’ Trainers in ICAR, training programme for Technical and/ or Administrative staff dealing with Security or Security Officer, Court cases, Assets Management, Works/Estate/ Building Maintenance, Capacity Building Programme for CJSC Members and establishment matters for LDCs and UDCs of ICAR. Training programmes for Guest House Caretakers/Incharges, stenographers grade, technical staff, regular drivers, farm manager, PME Cell Incharges, ITMU/ZTMU Incharges, Vigilance Officers, etc. were also organized.