, 2020). Our sensitivity analyses indicates that the effect of irrigation prices on FDPIs only becomes of substantial magnitude for the largest farms (Table 2; Figs. 4 and 5) – but not for the majority. Additional often-cited policy levers formproving farmers’ incomes include better market prices such as the minimum support price for cereals or shifting to high-value crops. As with irrigation cost, our data suggests that minimum support prices (see Fig. 5) only have meaningful effects for the highest household IBI quartile. If the official minimum support price for 2020 was paid to farmers in our dataset, the median FPDI for the bottom IBI quartile would amount to a 0.26 PPP$ day−1 for low irrigation intensities and 0.30 PPP$ day−1 for systems with high irrigation intensities (compared to 2.84 PPP$ day−1 and 3.14 PPP$ day−1 for the upper IBI quartile). Farmers do see increases in FDPI and thus a reduction in the depth of poverty, but there is no transformative shift above the poverty line if they received the minimum support prices (see Fig. 4). Another avenue for irrigation to increase FDPIs is by allowing for cultivation of cash crops or triple cropping. As our dataset does not contain such information, we explore these scenarios with profitability values from the literature and a few simple thought experiments: Profitability estimates for diversified or intensified farm systems in the region range from PPP$ 4000 to PPP$ 13,000 per annum with either a third crop (e.g. greengram) and/or significant horticulture integration that replace rice and wheat (Khan and Verma, 2018; Mishra et al., 2021; Sen et al., 2017). These profit margins translate to 0.80–2.60 PPP$ day−1 for the median household. In the unlikely event that all farmers in our dataset earned the top line 13,000 PPP$ ha−1, 37% of farmers would remain below the poverty line and 15.7% below the 1 PPP$ day−1 threshold. This means that highly productive farming systems with well- controlled triple cropping and well-functioning markets may lift a sub­ stantial number of farms above the poverty line of 1.90 PPP$ day−1 but more than one third remains below it. Besides, the scalability of these diversified systems is limited by biophysical constraints, the food secu­ rity and cultural value of rice and wheat production, and hinge on market integration, price fluctuations, and farmers’ ability to sustain both operation costs and capital investment costs. For many small­ holders’ diversification thus provides some opportunities for poverty reduction, but with significant risks and investment costs, These results have consequential implications for irrigation-led intensification policies and programs. First, the economic incentives to invest resources into (irrigation-led) agricultural intensification are rather limited for most farms.