1 Establishment of KVK KVK is a Plan Scheme of ICAR implemented under the administrative support of different host organizations. For the establishment of new KVK the host organization should apply in the prescribed format taking into consideration of the requirements detailed below. Proforma for submitting proposal for the establishment of KVK is furnished in Appendix I. 6.1.1 Land requirement: The land requirement for establishment of a KVK is about 20 ha. The proposed land should be provided free of cost and fulfill the following requirements: ●The location of the proposed site should be as per as possible in the centre of the district and easily accessible. ●The land should be contiguous and free from encumbrances, litigation and attachments. ●The ownership of land should be in the name of organization. ●The location should have educational, medical and other civic amenities nearby. ●The land should be cultivable and should have easy access to electricity and water for irrigation. 6.1.2 Suitability of the host organization: The SAUs/CAU/CU/DU/State Departments/PSU/ICAR Institutes/Other Educational Institutions/NGOs working in the field of agriculture are eligible to submit the proposals for a KVK in the rural district. In the case of NGO, it should have ●Minimum five years of experience of working in the field of agriculture, rural development and/or natural resource management with appropriate governance structure and proven record of financial viability supported by valid documents. ●Willingness of the host organization to share its resources for growth and effective functioning of the KVK. ●Willingness and commitment to run the KVK strictly in terms of objectives of ICAR as enunciated in rules and by-laws of ICAR Society. Documents to be submitted in support of proposals will be as under: A. For SAUs/CAU/CU with Agriculture Faculty/DU (Agriculture)/State Departments/PSU/ ICAR Institutes (i) Executive Order from the competent authority for allocation of land wherein the organizational ownership and possession of the proposed land duly supported by sketch map, survey numbers and clear title. (ii) Alternatively, consent from competent authority of the State Government for transfer of proposed land, supported by sketch map and survey numbers. 81 Administrative Guidelines B. For NGOs The application submitted by the NGO should be accompanied with the following documents: (i) Certificate from the district revenue authority showing that (a) The proposed land is owned or held from the Government in the name of the Organization. (b) The land should be contiguous and free from all encumbrances, attachments and litigation. (c) The organization has clear and marketable title to the land/property.