5 kg), 15 pieces of sugar powder, and 30 g of freshly prepared curd were fermented in tap water for 15 days [83]. Thirty-six seeds of black gram were planted and irrigated with water comprising 350 mg/L of total suspended solids and various doses of the bio-fertilizer (5, 10, 15, and 20 mL/L). A week after the seeds were planted, germination data were collected, and it was found that they increased with the increase in the dosage of the composite Agriculture 2024, 14, 1894 13 of 24 fertilizer. The authors attributed this observation to the increased concentration of K in the peels; however, it can also be added that fermenting the blended mixture for 15 days allowed nutrients to be released. The application technique and materials used to formulate a composite fertilizer greatly impact its characteristics and performance. A formulation comprising banana peel, bean sprouts, and eggshells was found to be outshined by one containing banana humps, onion peels, bean sprouts, and moringa leaves, which displayed an improved magnesium and chlorophyll content [86]. This could be attributed to the presence of moringa in the second formulation, as it is rich in magnesium [87]. Thus, it is important to optimize parameters such as the concentration of the components that make up the composite fertilizer, as well as its application rate. The same fertilizer can yield different results at different rates. This was observed in the study by Howeidi et al. [88], where 40 mL/L of BP-based fertilized resulted showed outstanding results for plant height, the number of leaves, and percentage of dry matter in the vegetables and roots, while 20 mL/L excelled in improving the relative chlorophyll content in the leaves, average root weight, and size and yield. Other studies in this area only focused on evaluating banana peels individually or as part of a composite fertilizer by determining their chemical contents [86,89]. 3.2. Banana Peel Ashes and Biochar 3.2.1. Banana Peel Ashes Ashes are solid, powdery materials that generally remain after the combustion of biomass (wood, leaves, cellulose, lignin, manure, forest, and agricultural waste) in the presence of oxygen. Wood ash is the most common type of ash, and it results from burning wood for heat and fuel. Like any waste material, ashes are discarded and not converted into valuable products. However, studies [90–94] have shown the occurrence of some beneficial minerals for soil enrichment in agriculture, such as calcium (Ca) and potassium (K), in organic ash. Their value contributes towards alleviating environmental pollution, the costs associated with its disposal, and opening up waste landfill sites. Another type of ash, from combusted BPs, has been shown to be interesting due to its high potassium content, which can be converted to commercial products such as fertilizers. The peels are combusted to obtain ashes that can be applied as a fertilizer, as demon- strated by Franck et al.