 The effect of maize-wheat- mungbean cropping system was also superior to rice-wheat-mungbean cropping system on values of CRe 0K which reflects upon the ability of the former cropping system to maintain higher K intensity over Ca++ and Mg++ at equilibrium condition. 3.2.4. Labile K (KL) The amount of labile K in the soils under different management practices ranged from 0.166 to 0.368 cmol kg −1 (Table 2). Labile K has two components, non-specifically held K (K0) and specifically held K (KX) which is explained in the following sections. The maximum value of labile K (0.368 cmol kg −1) was reported in Sc2 and the minimum in Sc1 (0.166 cmol kg −1). Incorporation of crop residues in Sc2 showed higher labile K (0.368 cmol kg −1) than other scenarios. The difference in the mean values of SDI and flooding based scenarios were not prominent in this case. Likewise, the effect of cropping system was also not consid­ erable with respect to KL. Routine method of K analysis based on NH4OAC extraction is generally considered a measure of labile K (Jiang et al., 2019) but here we can clearly observe the discrepancies in the trend observed in case of labile K determined through routine method (Fig. 2) and Q/I method (Table 2). 3.2.5. Planar K (K0) The immediately available component of labile K is the K present in the planar (non-specific) position of the surface. The value of planar K varied from 0.041 cmol kg −1 in Sc1 to 0.147 cmol kg −1 in Sc6 (Table 2). The results show that maize-wheat-mungbean cropping system can maintain higher amount of readily available K as compared to rice- wheat-mungbean cropping system. However, it is clear from the data that adopting conventional tillage as in Sc1 results in lower K avail­ ability and the immediate availability to crops is impacted. The planar K contributed 19–45% towards labile K; lowest and highest contribution was made by Sc2 and Sc6, respectively. Unlike KL, the difference in the value of K0 in both the cropping systems with or without SDI were prominent with maize-wheat-mungbean system having higher propor­ tion of planar K. 3.2.6. Specifically held K (KX) KX values represent the K located in the specific position in clay edges and wedges and which is not available to crop immediately but with time gradually as the planar K gets depleted. The value of KX ranged from 0.125 to 0.298 cmol kg −1 (Table 2). The highest and lowest KX value was obtained in Sc2 and Sc1, respectively. Results indicate that the higher values of available K in Sc2 is mainly accounted by KX. Full CA based scenarios were also able to maintain relatively higher values of KX as compared to Sc1. The contribution of KX towards KL varied from 54.8% in Sc6 to 81% in Sc2. The figures bring out that the higher values of labile K in Sc2 was mainly due to the specifically held K whereas approximately equal contribution was observed from K0 and KX in Sc6.