 Three key activities planned as part of the 2019 work plan in February and March 2020 could not be conducted due to the global COVID-19 pandemic. The activities that was proposed to be taken up during early 2020 include: 1. Five-days Fish Genetics training program in Penang for CIFA Genetics Researchers planned in February 2020. 2. Fish supply/demand and fish futures workshop planned in CIFA, Bhubaneswar in March 2020. 3. Five-days visit of young researchers from CIFT to work with nutrition researchers in WorldFish to undertake data analysis and writing of fish consumption survey results. ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 76 The joint research activities initiated in 2019 will be further developed under the 5-years joint research program (2019-2023) and is expected to contribute to increased productivity from sustainable aquaculture, better governance of inland water bodies and improved nutritional outcomes from capture and culture fisheries. Summary of Work Plan for the Calendar Year 2020 Institution/Program Activity Deliverables ICAR-CIFA WorldFish (Sustainable Aquaculture) Continue Life cycle studies and yield gap analysis work Research paper on LCA of carp farming systems Research paper on on-farm performance of improved Jayanti Rohu ICAR-CIFRI WorldFish (Resilient small- scale fisheries) Continue work on productivity enhancement strategies from wetlands and flood plains Research paper on role of improved governance and technical interventions on fish production from beels and associated nutritional outcomes for the community CAR-CIFT WorldFish (value chains and nutrition) Continue work on fish consumption patterns of rural and urban consumers and development of specific fish products for the first 1,000 days of life Research paper on fish consumption patterns of rural and urban people and its nutritional implications Research paper on development and acceptance of novel fish products for first 1000 days of life ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 77 Annexure ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 78 79 The Virtual Annual Review Meeting of the CGIAR Centres was held on May 4, 2020 under the Chairmanship of Secretary DARE & DG ICAR to review the progress of work in 2019 as per the approved work plans and to plan research activities for 2020. A total of 102 participants could join this virtual meeting, including Additional Secretary (DARE), DDGs, ADGs, Directors of various ICAR Institutes who are partners in the collaborative projects, officials of DARE, Country Representatives of CGIAR Centres and their colleagues. Dr. T. Mohapatra, Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR in his initial remarks highlighted the importance of ICAR-CGIAR collaborations citing some examples of success, in areas of germplasm exchange, capacity building of scientists, and the number of research projects, publications, policy documents, etc. He drew the attention of all to ‘One CGIAR’ initiative and urged all CG Centre representatives to prepare for the change.