 515 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Improving the animal protein availability by establishing small holder dairy, sheep/goat and piggery units Milk, meat and egg play a crucial role in fulfilling the protein requirements of human beings. In recent times, increasing urbanization has led to shrinkage of pasture land and related natural resources putting enormous strain on animal husbandry. This necessitates facilitating farmers to take up dairy, goat and sheep farming, piggery and poultry as an avocation to embolden not only the rural economy but also to enhance the animal protein availability. It is proposed to establish 300 dairy units (both cows and buffaloes), 1000 piggery units and 5000 sheep/goat units over the next five years. Livestock Health Management Livestock productivity is dependent on effective health management. An all-encompassing approach covering vaccine production, sero-surveillance, vaccination, biosecurity, disease diagnosis and appropriate interventions will ensure better livestock health leading to sustained productivity will be the action plan suggested. Up-gradation of vaccine production facilities at IVPM, Ranipet, Vellore to GMP standards The Institute of Veterinary Preventive Medicine, Ranipet, a unit of the Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services, Government of Tamil Nadu, is engaged in the production of Veterinary Biological and Pharmaceuticals for use by the field Veterinary Institutions in the State. The WHO has mandated that any institution involved in vaccine production must have facilities compliant with GMP norms to be eligible for licensing. As most of the production facilities at IVPM, Ranipet were established several decades back, the following facilities have to be provided to make the institute GMP compliant. Š Š Establishment of Animal testing facility Š Š Establishment of QC lab Š Š Up-gradation of FMD regional centre to GMP standards Š Š Establishing PPR vaccine production unit of GMP standards Š Š Construction of Warehouse Š Š Strengthening of Brucella vaccine production unit Š Š Upgradation of pharmaceutical division Š Š Establishment of Tissue Culture facility for Sheep pox Vaccine Production Š Š Upgradation of Diagnostic section to GLP standards Š Š Improving the infrastructure facilities Š Š Establishment of feed milling plant. Vaccination and Sero-Surveillance 516 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Strengthening the sero-surveillance mechanism by improving the infrastructure facilities of Animal Disease Intelligence Units, Poultry Disease Diagnostic Labs, Central Referral Lab and the field units assumes greater significance. Establishment of more number of mobile veterinary units, mobile disease diagnostic laboratories and facilities for cold-chain management also will strengthen the disease monitoring and management capabilities of the Department.