in Rhizome (immature) characters of IISR Vajra Field view of IISR Vajra May–June 2023 17 C AULIFLOWER (Brassica oleracea var. botrytis L.), popularly called ‘Phool Gobhi’ is a Cole crop vegetable, and most sensitive to temperature during curd development. India is the second largest producer of cauliflower after China with production of 9437 (‘000 t) and productivity of 19.7 t/ha during 2021-22 (NHB, 2nd Adv. estimate) and major cauliflower producing states are West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. India is endowed with wide range of weather conditions throughout its geographical regions. Even in North Indian plains, the temperature differs drastically from Bihar to Punjab that affects the curd development and productivity, if sowing and transplanting is not aligned properly. Selection of proper varieties suitable for a given environment is the most critical assignment for the cauliflower growers. Hence, based upon the temperature requirement for curd development, the varieties of cauliflower have been broadly classified into early (20-27 ˚C, Kunwari & Katki), mid (16-20 ˚C, Agahani), mid-late (12-16 ˚C, Poosi) and late (10-16 ˚C, Maghi) maturity groups. In early maturing group, due to higher ambient temperature, curd formation is uneven with less compact, puffy buds, yellowish-white in colour and smaller in size. However, due to increasing demand and realization of higher price by the farmers, cultivars for early group maturing during mid-September to mid- November (Kunwari & Katki maturity) are in demand. Kashi Gobhi-25 This is an early maturing, open pollinated (OP) variety developed by mass selection at ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi. The variety was released for cultivation in Uttar Pradesh in October 2018 by Uttar Pradesh State Variety Release Committee (UP SVRC), and notified in 2019 [Gazette notification: SO 692(E) dated 05.02.2019]. Being a tropical type, the variety does not require vernalization Kashi Gobhi-25: An early cauliflower variety for North Indian plain Cauliflower is an important vegetable of India belonging to Cole crop and family Brassicaceae. Kashi Gobhi-25 is an early maturing and high yielding OP variety of tropical cauliflower developed by ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi, UP, and is released and notified for Uttar Pradesh in 2018 & 2019, respectively. The variety comes to curding in the last week of October to first fortnight of November at daytime temperature range of 22-27°C. The potential yield of the variety is 23-25 t/ha with average marketable curd weight of 500-600 g. The variety is in breeder seed chain, and commercialised through licensing with private and public sectors. Due to its early maturing, medium curd size and compactness, the variety has gained popularity among the farmers.