 High yielding superior fruit varieties for commercial cultivation are Amrapali; Mallika; Pusa Arunima ; Pusa Surya; Pusa Pratibha; Pusa Shreshth ; Pusa Lalima for Mango; Pusa Sharad and Pusa Round for sweet orange; and, KagziKalan for lemon etc. Along with the varietal change, improved fruit production technologies as High density orchard can also be option for doubling the farmers income for example high density orchard for Amrapali Mango. Mango is generally being cultivated at wider spacing (10-15 m) wherein only 80-100 trees could be planted in a hectare of area. Under this system lot of available area/land could not be utilized efficiently which causes a loss of revenue from the available land and results in low productivity. High density orchard accommodates more than 375- 450 trees per hectare. High density plantations are the consequences of continuous decline in the availability of cultivated land, rising energy and land cost together with the mounting demand for horticultural produce. Besides an increased number of trees per ha, a high density orchard must come into bearing within 2-3 years after planting, through using precocious rootstocks. As tree density is increased, profitability is increased up to approximately 2,500 trees per hectare. The result of medium density plantation is most encouraging in mango. Dwarf and compact trees in high density orchards, not only provide high yield and net economic returns per unit area in the initial years but also facilitate more efficient use of fertilizers, water, plant protection measures, weed control, and easy efficient harvest management practices. Effective Utilization of Water The vulnerability of Indian agriculture is bound to be severe if the present trend of water use and management efficiency is not changed. The International Water Management Institute forecasts that by 2025, 33% of India’s population will live under absolute water scarcity condition. Rainfed lands are not only low in productivity and sustainability, but also more prone to risks, as compared to irrigated areas. Rainfed areas are also the location where, proportionately a greater concentration of poor and hungry persons lives. This can be obviated to some extent by expanding irrigated areas through improving water management and water use patterns. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 123 Presently, the problem facing the country is not the development of water resources but the management of the developed water resources in a sustainable manner. The bulk of Delhi agricultural lands could be brought under irrigation by adopting efficient water management practices. Micro irrigation is one such practice. Drip irrigation can be used for most crops, such as: Orchard crops Grapes, Banana, Pomegranate, Orange, Citrus, Mango, Lemon, Sapota, Guava, Papaya, Aonla, etc.