 The requirement of soil and climatic conditions, available varieties to the farmers, land preparation, propagation, sowing season, cultural practices, pest and disease management, harvesting, post-harvest processing, yield, its medicinal properties, marketing and export potential of senna are detailed in this article. C ASSIA angustifolia is commonly known as Senna and it belongs to the family Leguminosae. It is widely used in Ayurvedic medicine. The great demand for senna leaves and pods in Western countries is due to their laxative properties. Senna was first introduced in south India by Arabian physicians and traders during early 11th Century and the farmers started growing it in Tamil Nadu. Thereafter it was commercially cultivated in the Tinnevelly and Ramanthapruam districts of Tamil Nadu, so it is commonly known as Tinnevelly senna. The demand for senna in the international market is a great opportunity for Indian farmers to cultivate senna on a commercial scale. It is commercially cultivated in the Tinnavelly, Madurai, Tiruchirapalli districts of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka (Mysore), Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, West Bengal, and Tripura in 1 lakh ha area in the arid and semi-arid regions of India. The annual domestic consumption of senna leaves and pods in Indian herbal industries is estimated at 1285 tonnes. The annual production of senna is about 6000-7500 tonnes of leaves and pods, of which 80% of the produce is exported fetching ` 350-360 million annually. In India, most of the senna leaves are exported to the United States, China, Thailand, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Canada, Mexico, Australia, Japan, etc. India is the largest producer and exporter of senna in the world market. Therefore, it provides a great opportunity to the farmers in the cultivation of senna easily with a low cost of production. The senna is a hardy crop in general though it can be grown as a rainfed crop. It also tolerates drought conditions, if 2-4 supplement irrigations are provided, it gives a higher yield and net profit. Senna cultivation requires low input application, can be grown as a rainfed crop, and tolerates a certain level of salinity in the soil. Therefore, the cultivation of senna in problematic soils, waste, and marginal lands is a viable option to uplift livelihood of small and marginal farmers. In recent years, the demand for organic products is increasing in the global markets. Therefore, organic cultivation of senna is a golden opportunity for Indian farmers where pesticides are not required in senna cultivation and organic products of senna will fetch 30% higher price than the normal kind of products in the global market. Medicinal uses Senna leaves and pods consist of the sennosides A, B, C, and D, and these sennosides have laxative properties. It is used as a ‘cleansing’ herb due to its cathartic effect. In Europe, senna leaves are used in the preparation of herbal tea.