com Mass of dead bees lying on beehive (Left) and field (Right) caused by pesticide poisoning Source: Apiary unit of UBKV, West Bengal Various stressors responsible for bee decline Earth provides enough to satisfy every man's needs, but not every man's greed. —Mahatma Gandhi Indian Farming 37 March 2023 Gender-sensitive agri-horti cropping model: A transformative approach for livelihood enhancement Sahu Ankita, R S Panda and Lipi Das* ICAR-Central Institute for Women in Agriculture, Bhubaneswar, Odisha 751 003 The trending feminization in agriculture necessitates mainstreaming farm women with the commercial actualization of farming by designing women-centric cropping models and extension approaches, which addresses their farming issues and upgrade them with latest technical know how in agriculture to enhance their livelihood. Bridging the gender gap in agriculture by integrating women-inclusive strategies will enable in transforming Indian agriculture. With this back drop, ICAR-Central Institute for Women in Agriculture attempted to empower the farm women of eastern tropical region with gender-sensitive agri-horti livelihood enhancing cropping model. The model caters predominantly to the needs of rice women growers of the region, who also cultivate need-based seasonal vegetable crops. The introduction of high yielding rice varieties like CR-Dhan 307 (Maudamani), CR-Dhan 409 (Pradhan Dhan) and CR-Dhan 312, resulted in phenomenal yield enhancement of ~30–60%. Crop diversification in medium land paddy with relay cropping of black gram, variety PU–31, resulted in a yield enhancement of ~25–30%. Similarly, transformation of conventional vegetable farming with improved package of practices resulted in increasing production potential by ~25–50%. The livelihood model adopts a women-centric approach which aligns with farm women’s needs and preferences. Keywords: Agri-horti model, Farm women, Livelihood enhancement T HE up-gradation of Indian farming from subsistence to commercial level is occurring at a moderately sluggish pace and still a wide segment of agrarian population is performing primitive farming for merely meeting their ends. The present scenarios of fluctuating economies, climatic aberrations, depleting resources, have imposed paramount challenges on sustainable income generation from farming. The emerging issue of reduced work-force in agriculture is also becoming a matter of concern, owing to swamping migration of male members to urban areas in search of service-related livelihoods. This trend is transforming Indian agriculture to be feminized. Hence, gender-sensitive approaches are required for sustaining the farm women in agriculture and enhancing their livelihood dimensions Indian Farming 73 (03): 37-40; March 2023 through suitable cropping- based interventions.