 The Governing Body consists of eminent agricultural scientists, educationist, public representatives and representatives of the farmers. It is assisted by the Accreditation Board, Regional Committees, Policy and Planning Committee, several Scientific Panels and Publications Committee. In scientific matters, the Director General is assisted by 8 Deputy Directors General, one each in (i) Crop Science, (ii) Horticulture Science, (iii) Natural Resource Management, (iv) Animal Science, (v) Agricultural Engineering, (vi) Fisheries Science, (vii) Agricultural Education, and (viii) Agricultural Extension, who are also assisted by Assistant Directors General, and are the Heads of their Subject Matter Division (SMDs) for the entire country. SMDs are responsible for extending all technical and financial guidance and support to the research Institutes, National Research Centres and the Project Directorates within their respective Divisions. In addition, Assistant Directors General of National Agricultural Science Fund (NASF), Coordination, Plan Implementation and Monitoring, Intellectual Relations and Human Resource Management also assist the Director General in their respective job roles. The Senior Officers at the ICAR (headquarters) are listed in Appendix 4. The research set up of the ICAR include 112: 72 Research Institutes (Appendix 5), 6 National Bureaux (Appendix 6), 22 Project Directorates and Agricultural Technology Application Research Institutes (Appendix 7), 12 National Research Centres (Appendix 8), and 82 All India Coordinated Research Projects and Network Research Projects (Appendix 9). The Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) functions as communication arm of the ICAR responsible for delivery of information/knowledge generated by the network of the ICAR and its institutions; and addresses mandate of ICAR through publications, information, ICT, Public Relations Unit and CeRA. The ICAR promotes research, education and frontline extension activities in 74 Agricultural Universities, which include 63 State Agricultural Universities, 4 Deemed Universities, 3 Central Agricultural Universities, and 4 Central Universities with agricultural faculty by giving financial assistance in different forms (Appendix 10). ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 160 ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 161 ADMINISTRATION Filling up of vacant posts: During the year, the following posts were filled up under the promotion quota: five Director/Joint Director cum Registrar, one Director (F)/Comptroller, one Deputy Director (F)/ Chief Finance and Accounts Officer, three Deputy Secretary and three Chief Administrative Officer, eleven Senior Finance and Accounts Officer, three Under- Secretaries, five Senior Administrative Officer, three Deputy Director (OL), one Principal Private Secretary, ten Administrative Officer, nine Finance and Accounts Officer, three Section Officers and two Private Secretary.