 The model assesses the fit of four major decision-making rules: utility maximization, self- satisficing, social norms, and random choice, through the implementa­ tion of corresponding decision algorithms. The model assesses the fit of these decision-making rules by replicating the environmental dynamics that occurred in the study area during the survey period and comparing the simulated adaptation strategies with observed adaptation decisions of farmers. The AG-ADAPT model also assesses if the fit of the three decision-making rules holds for farmers differentiated based on farm size holdings, in recognition of the fact that households with different farm sizes may have different goals, motivations, and resources avail­ able to them. Our model analysis demonstrates that while farmers can and do engage in different agricultural adaptation strategies, year-to- year, there are distinct patterns in the decision-making processes through which adaptation occurs. We find evidence that the decision- making process of farmers depends on the type of adaptation strategy under consideration as well as the socio-economic characteristics of the decision-maker. Our results heed to the importance of situated and grounded agricultural policy and extension services that recognize the different decision-making frames, and goals of adaptation. An empirical understanding of how agriculturalists have adapted to socio- environmental change in the past can be a helpful guide for policy design to explicitly consider the diverse contexts within which agricul­ tural adaptation decisions occur. While we acknowledge that past de­ cisions may not be sufficient to guide future adaptation behavior, particularly considering climate change, uncertainty, and weather ex­ tremes, evidence supporting the use of varied decision-making heuristics can open-up conversations around how future adaptation policies and programs are framed and ultimately communicated. In the following sections, we discuss the ABM approach (section 2), followed by our methodology (section 3). We highlight the results and discussion in sections 4 and 5. Sections 6 & 7 outline the limitations and conclusion with broader policy lessons and applications of our work. 2. Agent-based modeling: an overview ABM originated in computer sciences to simulate how autonomous decision-making entities (“agents”), assigned certain theoretical or empirically informed characteristics and behavioral rules, perform ac­ tions and interact with each other in a simulated environment to pro­ duce emergent behavior (Janssen and Ostrom, 2006). In the last decade, ABM has become a core computational tool to study the consequences of human decision-making in complex human-environment (social-­ ecological) systems (e.g., An, 2012; Groeneveld et al., 2017; Elsawah et al., 2015; Huber et al., 2018; An et al., 2020; Ge and Polhill, 2020).