 There are four key pathways to achieve the goal of enhancing farmer’s income which are, (i) by increasing productivity; (ii) by reducing cost of cultivation; (iii) by increasing market opportunities and; (iv) by developing sustainable value chain. For this, millet technologies along with allied enterprises were demonstrated and evaluated in the farmer’s fields by ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research (IIMR), Hyderabad which has taken an initiative through millets-based modules, viz. (i) crop module, (ii) livestock module, and (iii) entrepreneurship module. Total 6 villages in Nyalkal and Raikode mandals of Sangareddy district of Telangana state were Indian Farming 97 January 2023 selected to test above modules along with existing farmer’s practices for comparison and provided primary processing and secondary processing facilities at village through participatory approach during three years (2017–18, 2018–19 and 2019–20). Under crop module, high yielding varieties of redgram, rabi (winter season) sorghum, kharif (rainy season) sorghum, foxtail millet, little millet and brown-top millet and intercropping of pigeon pea with foxtail millet were undertaken in farmers’ fields. In the livestock module, poultry birds of improved variety were introduced. Moreover, post-harvest processing facilities on millets were also introduced by establishing primary and secondary processing units including roti making machines at a village under entrepreneurship module to enhance millets consumption and farmer’s income. Crop module Keeping millets cultivation related problems of the project area in view, a total of 7 crop production technology related and 1 horticulture related interventions were evaluated. The crop-based interventions gave better net returns than the farmers’ practices; redgram variety ICPL 87119 (29.9%), rabi sorghum varieties; Phule Suchitra (176.9%), little millet; DHLM 36-3 (23.3%), brown-top millet (24.7%), kharif sorghum variety; CSV 27 (26.3%), foxtail millet; SiA 3088 (24.7%), intercropping of pigeonpea with foxtail millet in kharif season gave net profit of `47,248/ha. Improved millet crop interventions gave substantially higher yield and resulted into higher net returns ranging between 23–176% (Table 1 and 2). Livestock module Intervention of improved backyard poultry technology: In view to enhance farmer’s income through millets farming system, improved poultry technology was introduced in the project area. It has link with millet production system as millet by-products (broken grains) were major feed support to this enterprise. Vanaraja poultry breed developed by ICAR–PDP, Hyderabad was introduced in these villages to 80 families, and 10 birds were supplied to each family. In an average Table 1.