 n pool, egg/ g pool is cylin as enough pr walls, and sho carps in field collection of incubation ch at the botto e and cleanin ociated with o h two hatchin the case of o ested in 4th, hu (Labeo ro nese carps ommon carp kg of carps in antity of spaw season the sy This hatchery by unemplo hatchery has irement, eas atching pool, 75/= only. ry rearing of spawn colle ndrical water ovision to pr owers at the t conditions. eggs/ spawn hamber, FRP om of the po ng is made i one hatching ng pools and one, two and 2nd and eve ohita), Catla ( viz., Silver (Cyprinus ca n one operati wn can be us ystem can be y can be used oyed youth, s many advan sy to repair one egg/ s seed. ection r pool rovide top to Eggs/ from inner ol for n the pool. three three ryday (Catla carp arpio); on. In sed as e used d as a Gram ntages r and spawn 3.3 Pe In this thr sheet of 1 look. The minimizin body has One man/ % efficien particular farmers. T 3.3 Orific This equip head and Develope operates kg/cm2. maximum cheaper edal operate resher, the GI 1 mm thickne e machine p ng the sharp another adva /woman can ncy. The mac rly in hilly te The machines ce Meter pment could minimum pr ed orifice m s at a press The orifice m fertilizer a than most c d paddy thre I sheet body ess that reduc provides bett edge of met antage of bein operate the m chine in light rraced land. s costs Rs 350 be used for essure drop. eters provid ure of less e meter hav application commonly u esher (VL Pad of the pedal o ces the total w ter ergonom tal during tra ng rust proof machine and t (weight is 4 The use of 00/‐. fertilizer app de flexibility than 1 kg/ ving thickne rate 45 lph sed device ddy Thresher operated pad weight of the ics and redu ansportation . The machin the output ca 40 kg) and h this machine plication thro y of applying /cm2.While t ess‐12.7 mm at inlet pre i.e. venturi. 1) ddy thresher machine to 4 uces the pro and operatio e provides th apacity of the hence can be e significantly ough drip irri g fertilizer a the venturi m and diam ssure 0.702 The cost o was replaced 40 kg from 65 obability of on in hilly te e threshing e e machine is 8 e transported y reduces th igation system t different r operates a meter‐3.18 m kg/cm2.The of orifice me www.icar.or 2002 ‐ 2 d by polycarbo 5 kg besides b injury hazard rrains. The p efficiency as 9 80‐100 kg/hr d to different e drudgery o m at low‐pre rates. Equip at 1 kg/cm2 mm is best e orifice met eter with by rg.in 5 2007 onate better ds by plastic 98%. at 98 t field of hill essure ment to 4 with ter is ‐pass 6 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Agricultural Engineering www.icar.org.in system is around Rs. 300.00 where as the cost of the venturi is Rs. 1048.00 for same purpose of fertigation. Fertilizer injection rate increases with increase in area of fertigation and decreases with increase in outlet pressure for particular inlet pressure. It requires only 0.5 to 1.0 HP motor for its operation. The orifice meter having thickness‐12.