 Precaution should be taken so that the harvested dry Stover of sorghum may not damage due to rainfall, if it happens the quality as well as storage capacity of dry Stover decrease and animals not prefer such type of fodder. yy Fodder management: Use Maize African Tall and new varieties of hybrid napier like Phule Gunwant, DHN-6, BNH-10 and Super Napier for round the green fodder availability. Excess green fodder should be converted into silage. 162 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Milch Animals: Provide clean, hygienic and plenty amount of drinking water to milch animals. To reduce the stress of heat in farm animals, provide roughages by mixing with solution of 1% jaggery and 0.5% salt separately. Milch animals should be offered 50 gm of mineral mixture daily in two divided doses to maintain milk yield and to overcome the problem of anestrous cycle, yy Buffalo: Allow buffalo for wallowing in water as they have fewer sweet glands compared to cattle to maintain their body’s thermo equilibrium. Water-soaked gunny bag or other cloth should be kept on a body to avoid occurrence of heat stroke. yy Goat: Animals should be vaccinated before monsoon season for Enterotoxaemia and Peste des petes (PPR) ruminants’ diseases to avoid great losses. Improved breeds like Osmanabadi should be used for higher income. yy Poultry: In the summer the poultry shed should be kept cool. Plants more trees around the shed. The roof of the shed should be covered with grass, so that the temperature remains under control. Exhaust fan should be kept in the shed, so that the hot air inside shed is thrown out. Use foggers, so the shade will cool down. Improved backyard poultry breeds like Grampriya, Shrinidhi, Kaveri, Giriraja and Vanaraja should be used to boost up the income of small and marginal farmers. 163 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS GUJARAT Crop Specific Advisories Kharif Paddy: 1/10th area of planting filed select for nursery. Land should be prepare after ploughing, harrowing and make raised beds as 1m wide. Apply well decompose FYM/Compost at the time of land preparation. Required seed of improved variety purchase for timely sowing. Sowing can be done in nursery seedbed with following popular and recommended varieties of paddy i.e. NAUR-1, GNR-2 (Costal area) GNR-3, GNR-4, GNR-5, GNR-6 (Long duration), Jaya, Gurjari, GR-5, 7, 8, 9, IR-28, Purna and GAR-13. Before sowing apply seed treatment. Add 6 gm streptocycline + 12 gm Amsan-6 in 24 liters of water and dip Twenty-Five (25) kg seeds for 8 to 10 Hrs. Dry and treat with Thairum @ 3 g/kg seeds before sowing. Summer Groundnut: Under present weather condition, heliothis infestation is likely to be observed in groundnut. If, infestation found above ETL then spray Emamectin benzoate 5 % SG @ 7 gm/10 litre of water. Due to hot weather, monitoring about incidence of mite in groundnut is advised. If mite population increases, spraying of Ethion @ 1.