 As per irrigation water quality index (IWQI), 23 % of groundwater samples are in the low restriction zone, and 27 % of groundwater samples are in moderate restriction zone. These categories spread over the areas of 232 km2 and 440 km2. K- Nearest Neighbour (KNN) and Support Vector Machine (SVM) are the two updated famous machine learning models that are used in this study. The irrigation water quality parameters are employed as independent vari足 ables, and IWQI values served as baseline data for the estimation models. In this investigation, irrigation water quality has been predicted by the SVM model with a lower amount of error (RSR: 0.02; NSE: 0.97; MAPE: 1.3; R2: 0.97) than the KNN model (RSR:0.06; NSE:0.77; MAPE:9.79; R2:0.77) with the accuracy rates of 97 % and 77 %, respectively. The findings of this study will offer a detailed perspective to the administrators on integrating modern technologies to improve cost and time efficiency in management, resolve groundwater quality chal足 lenges, create innovative agricultural strategies, and promote awareness regarding irrigation suitability of groundwater. Additionally, the study will emphasize the importance of taking essential measures to enhance irrigation, thereby supporting for the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals 2 and 6. 1. Introduction In nature, water is a basic necessity for living things. Efficient allo足 cation and abundant availability of water resources is critical in enabling the survival of human societies (Mishra et al., 2024). Water resources, especially those used for farming, are inadequate in arid and semi-arid regions (Masoud et al., 2022). To sustainably manage water resources, wastewater, and ecosystems sustainably, the United Nations has established Sustainable Development Goal 2 (SDG 2) emphasize to promote sustainable agriculture, and Goal 6 (SDG 6) ensuring that everyone has access to clean water and sanitary facilities. Water insuf足 ficiency and quality degradation have led to worldwide environmental threaten, particularly in emerging countries (ur Rehman et al., 2024). Global groundwater quality concerns differ, with India and Bangladesh encountering arsenic and fluoride poisoning (WHO, 2023), while China indicates that 22.2 % of its groundwater is of low quality (Statista, * Corresponding authors at: Department of Civil Engineering, Hindusthan College of Engineering and Technology (Autonomous), Coimbatore 641032, India (D. Karunanidhi); Department of Geology & Department of Mining Engineering, CEG, Anna University, Chennai - 600025, India (T. Subramani). E-mail addresses: karunasamygis@gmail.com (D. Karunanidhi), geosubramani@gmail.com (T. Subramani). Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Computers and Electronics in Agriculture journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/compag https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2025.