 In tobacco, one Natu variety has been released; and one variety each in flue-cured virginia, Natu and Burley tobacco has been identified for cultivation in Andhra Pradesh. Other achievements include: identification in rice of three new cytoplasmic male-sterile (CMS) lines having desirable DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 2 03-004-01.p65\2\(28.02.03\06.03.03) quality traits and introgression of bacterial blight resistance genes through marker-aided selection into BPT 5204 and Triguna rice; development of a new wheat plant type (DL 1266-5); identification of maize genotypes resistant to different biotic stresses; adding of 450 indigenous and 3 exotic germplasm of forage crops; identification of resistance donors in Indian mustard for white rust and Alternaria blight; development of non-spiny hybrid NARI-H 1 with tolerance to Alternaria and Cercospora leaf spot diseases and Fusarium wilt in safflower; development of three ready-to-use kits to differentiate Bt-cottons from non- transgenics; production of intersectional hybrids of Nicotiana repanda × N. tabacum from hormone-aided direct hybridization; standardization of mass rearing of anthocorid Blaptostethus pallescens on Corcyra cephalonica; successful rearing of Chrysoperla carnea larvae on artificial diet; and accomplishment of breeding of bank myna in artificial nest-boxes installed in open-wells of agricultural habitats for the first time. In the area of Improvement and Management of Horticultural crops, a mango hybrid Ambika, suitable for international market, has been released. A technique for embryo rescue, and a technology for uniform ripening of mango have been developed. In banana, a natural tetraploid (ABBB) has been reported for the first time. Processing technologies of banana fruit and flower for pickle, and banana flour-based products like health-drink, baby-food and biscuits have been standardized. A software METWIN2 has been found suitable for forecasting downy mildew in grapes. Production technology of saffron cultivation has been standardized. A technology package has been developed for mechanized sorting, waxing, washing and packing of fruits in corrugated boxes, which includes aspects of degreening and storage to improve their shelf-life. Salient achievements in vegetable crops are: release of one variety each in bottle-gourd and bitter-gourd; development of five bitter-gourd populations with very high proportion of pistillate flowers; and identification of female sex-associated RAPD marker in pointed gourd to screen gender of plants at the seedling stage. In potato, 77 new accessions from the International Potato Centre, Lima, and 12 indigenous samples from Kashmir and Meghalaya have been added to germplasm, and 18 transgenics from Kufri Badshah and 20 from other four cultivars of potato have been developed for field trials. A computerized management tool for identification and management of major potato pests and diseases has been developed.