 Disease management: Most destructive diseases, Fusarium wilt (FW) caused by Fusarium udum, sterility mosaic (SM) transmitted by mites, Aceria cajani, PSB caused by Phytophthora Drechsler f. sp. cajani and ALB. While FW/SM are widely prevalent, ALB is a major problem in pre-rabi arhar grown during September-April. During last two decades, several resistant varieties have been developed to minimize the incidence of these diseases. Fusarium wilt • Growing resistant/tolerant varieties • Deep ploughing and exposing field to sunlight during hot summer months • Field sanitation and removal of all stubbles and plant debris • Seed treatment with Trichoderma viride @ 4-10/kg seed) and mix 2-5 kg ​of Trichoderma viride/ha with 60-75 kg of well decomposed compost, sprinkle it with light water and keep it in shade for 10 days and then mix it in the soil on the last tillage before sowing. • Seed treatment with carbendazim + thiram (1g + 2g/ kg seed)/carbendizim (2g/kg seed) • Intercropping with sorghum (2:1) • Cropping rotation with sorghum Sterility mosaic • Growing resistant varieties and field sanitation • Destruction of off-season volunteer plants in vicinity • Avoid ratoon crop of pigeonpea Alternaria blight • Growing resistant varieties • Foliar spraying of fungicides mancozeb @ 0.25% Phytophthora blight: Seed treatment with metalaxyl (3 g/kg seed) + ridge sowing + raising cover crops of cowpea and growing resistant varieties. Pest-management: Major insect pests attacking September arhar are gram pod borer (Helicoverpa armigera) and pod fly (Melanagromyza obtusa). Different component of pest management are described in succeeding paragraphs. Cultural practices • Sowing outside the normal timeframe, whether early or late, can exacerbate pest-related damage. • Recommended sowing times and rigorously implement pest control measures. • Planting at close spacing or achieving high plant density per unit area tends to attract more pests. • Ratoon and residual straw from arhar cultivation become significant sources of pests. It is advisable to eliminate these during the summer months. • Dealing with pests such as blister beetles, grey weevils, brown bugs, leaf tiers, and hairy caterpillars can be somewhat effective through methods like handpicking, jarring, or bagging. • Conducting deep plowing of fields during summer season proves beneficial as it reduces the likelihood of pest proliferation. Biological control measures, like use of NPV, have demonstrated high effectiveness in managing pod borers in arhar. A combination of NPV at a rate of 350 LE, along with adjuvants and Novaluron 10%, or alternate sprays of NPV 350 LE/ Novaluron 10%, is effective in controlling pod borer larvae. Chemical control Pest infesting floral bud, pod/seed: Lepidopteran insects (Helocoverpa armigera, Exelastis atomosa, Catochrysop sonejus, Lampedes boeticus, Catocherysops Strabo and Maruca testulis) first infest floral buds and then pod. Dipterans (M.