 The documents prepared by the institute in this regard may be reviewed. D Overall assessment The Panel may provide its rating of the performance of the institute as outstanding, very good, good and average. In addition to giving rating to the institution, the QRT should specify, in short, the reasons on which the rating is based. More important, the Panel may list the measures which it considers necessary for a more effective and efficient functioning of the institute/unit. These measures, if the Panel feels strongly, may call for a major reorganization of the institute/unit. E Consolidated recommendations F List of annexures 4. Terms of Reference The terms of the reference of the QRT would be as given in Annexure 1. 6 5. Financial Guidelines The following financial guidelines are suggested for the QRT. • A suitable provision for QRT expenditure should be made in the plan budget under the EFC/SFC of the institute/unit during each Plan. • Good transport facilities should be provided for the QRT work by the institute. The institutes/ZCUs/AICRPs concerned should arrange proper stay and journey arrangements for the members on payment basis as per rules. Efforts should also be made that all the members should stay at one place so as to create an environment for maximum interaction and discussion. • The honorarium for the members will be Rs 1,000 per day subject to the limit of Rs 15,000 over a period of six months in addition to normal TAiDA as admissible under the ICAR rules. Employees of SAUs, ICAR institutions and Government serving on the QRTs should also be paid honorarium, but should take leave of the kind due for the QRT work. • The expenses incurred in connection with the QRT review would be debited to the concerned institute/programme/ZCU and met out of the Plan budget provided for this purpose. 6. nme Schedule and Programme The process of organizing the QRT must be started by the ICAR at least 3 months in advance from the actual review by constituting QRT, its Chairman, setting timing of review and its duration in consultation with the institute/unit (Annexure II). The copy of the order constituting QRT should be sent to the ADG (PIM) for records and need-based referencing. The concerned DDG will propose a panel of 3 outstanding scientists who can be selected as Chairman of QRT to DG, and the DG will approve one of them. After obtaining the consent from the Chairman, the DDG will convene a meeting of the Chairman and the concerned ADG and Director to identify a team as well as the Secretary as per the guidelines and propose it to DG for approval. After the constitution of the QRT and taking consent of the members, the ICAR should arrange a preliminary planning meeting. Within a period of 2 months, the head of the respective institute/unit shall prepare a document as per the guidelines given in Annexure III.