 Ten phytosanitory certificates were issued for export of germplasm. The genetic resource of horticultural crops was strengthened by collecting germplasm accessions, viz. banana (55), citrus (20), grape (13), guava (23), jackfruit (29), litchi (12) and mango (44). Besides, genotypes of date palm and grapefruit (1 each), acid lime (11), mandarin (8), sweet orange (11), different species of Citrus rootstocks (17) and guava (5) were added to field gene bank. Twenty-seven mushroom specimens were collected from forest of Himachal Pradesh and Tripura and 21 were identified up to genus level. About 20 rare orchid species were collected from the Himalayan Ecosystem. Breeding material and parental lines of hybrids were assigned national identity—okra (23), tomato (2), pointed gourd (1), radish (9), carrot (16), bathua (4), French bean (10) and ridge gourd (1). In potato, 14 germplasm accessions were imported from the Netherlands and the USA and 4 accessions were added to the gene bank after quarantine clearance. Nine new populations of livestock and poultry have been registered as breeds, which include cattle, Badri (Uttarakhand); goats, Teressa (Andaman and Nicobar Islands) and Kodi Adu (Tamil Nadu); sheep, Chevaadu (Tamil Nadu) and Kendrapada (Odisha); pig, Tenyi Vo (Nagaland), Nicobari (Andaman and Nicobar Islands), Doom (Asom); and chicken, Kaunayen (Manipur). Phenotypic characterization was completed for the cattle of Sikkim, Meghalaya and Nagaland states; Konkan cattle; Burgur buffalo; Mouli sheep of Karnataka; Yalaga sheep and Nagaland goats. Measures of diversity which forms the basis for planning utilization and/or conservation were calculated for seven different species, viz. Dharwadi buffalo; Hazara birds; Poonch, Tibetain sheep; Bhakarwal goat; Rajasthani donkey; Arunachali yak; Kosali cattle; and Jalori and Mewari camel. The diversity indices pointed towards diminished genetic diversity and declining population in the Tibetain, a valuable Himalayan sheep breed. A faster and economic genotyping protocol was developed for congenital vascular malformation (CVM) and the same was registered for an Indian Patent. The FCGRT gene in Murrah buffaloes showed association with exon-3; which was significant between the high and the low colostral IgG groups. Viral load of CSF virulent virus was significantly higher in macrophages of crossbred pigs than that in indigenous pigs. Evaluation of immune competence traits revealed that Ghagus has better expression profile of genes linked to innate immunity. Whole genome sequencing of Clarias magur and Tenualosa ilisha, was carried out, which will help in fast selection of economically important adaptive traits and improvement of organisms. Mitochondrial genome sequencing of the highly esteemed edible oyster, Crossostrea madrasensis, will help in identification of stocks for future production programmes.