 An erect, nearly glabrous perennial herb, 60-150 cm high, found in Lahaul valley (Jammu & Kashmir), Ladakh, north Kashmir and western Tibet at altitudes of 3,300-4,650 m. Leaves irregular, ovate-oblong, wavy, flowers greenish, campanulate, in terminal corymbose cymes, capsules 2- celled, seeds many scrobiculate-reticulate. It grows wild and in abundance in Ladakh and Lahaul. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1906 Drenching of animal with castor oil for control of Ascaris Volume 2, page 410 Castor Refer to ITK Code No. 1808 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 2189 Wound healing using kakidonda and uttarani Volume 2, page 411 Kakidonda and uttarani Kakidonda: Bengali: telakucha; Gujarati: ghobe, glum; Hindi: kunduri; Kannada: tondekai; Marathi: bimbi, tendli; Sanskrit: bimba; Tamil: kovaikai; Telugu: donda kaya. Kakidonda: Ivy gourd Kakidonda: Coccinia indica Wight & Arn. Kakidonda: The root, stem and leaves are used for the treatment of skin diseases, bronchial catarrh, bronchitis and diabetes. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Geographical indications Kakidonda: A climbing or prostrate perennial herb, growing wild throughout India, with long tuberous roots and ovoid or elliptic fruits, 1-2 in. long and 1/2 -1 in diameter. The fruits are smooth and bright green with white stripes when immature, becoming bright scarlet when ripe. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 263 Control of foot-and-mouth disease in cattle and buffalo Volume 2, page 415 Wild cashew-nut and neem Wild cashewnut: Assamese: bhala, bholaguti; Bengali: bhela, bhelatuki; Gujarati: Bhilamu; Hindi and Punjabi: bhela, bhilawa; Kannada: goddu geru, karigeru; Malayalam: chera; Marathi: bibha, bhilava; Oriya: balia, bhollia; Tamil: shenkottei, erimugi; Telugu: bhallatakijidi. Wild cashewnut: Marking nut tree Wild cashewnut: Semecarpus anacardium Linn. f. Wild cashewnut: The pericarp of fruit abounds in a black oily, bitter and highly vesicant juice which has been traditionally used for marking linen. Kernel oil is used as a food preservative against white ants. Extract of root shows hypoglycaemic activity when administered orally to experimental animals. Wild cashewnut: A moderate-size deciduous tree, reaching up to a height of 12-15 m and a girth of 1.25 m, found in the outer Himalayas from Satlej to Sikkim and fairly common throughout the hotter parts of India as far east as Assam. Bark dark brown, rough; leaves large, simple, 17.5-60.0 cm x 10.0-30.0 cm, obovate-oblong; flowers small, dull greenish-yellow, dioecious, in terminal panicles; drupes 2.5 cm long, obliquely ovoid, smooth and shining, black when ripe, situated on a fleshy orange-coloured receptacle.