 The libraries will be used for identification of genes that are highly expressed in the flower and pod wall in order to isolate their regulatory sequences. Metagenomics analysis and manipulation of buffalo rumen ecosystem to improve fibre utilization and reduce methane production: Four adult fistulated buffaloes, in 4*4 Latin square design, were subjected to four treatments viz., T1: Control (without additive); T2: sulphur @ 0.05% of DMI (through sodium sulphate); T3: BPb (mixture of plant additives) @ 1.5% of DMI and T4: sulphur + BPb (doses same as in T2 and T3). Methane production was significantly lower in T3 and T4 while average body weight gain tended to increase (P=0.058) in T3 group of animals containing plant products as feed additives. The rumen enzyme and Microbial diversity of the rumen of buffalo fed sulphur and plant secondary metabolites microbial profile were not affected. The analysis of metatranscriptomic libraries comprising 20.17 Gbp, high quality data of rumen microbiome of buffaloes, i.e. 6 domain, 64 phyla, 272 genera and 89 CAZy enzyme families were obtained. Contribution of major fibre degrading bacteria Ruminococcus and Fibrobacter highlighted the fact that there were other microbes which were also important for fibre degradation and needed to be worked out. Assessment, prediction and enhancement of biotic carbon sequestration in agricultural soils: Geo-spatial analysis of organic carbon (C) stocks in soils of Punjab was performed to estimate C sequestration potential and to characterize organic matter composition in relation to crop, land-use and agricultural management. Inorganic C (SIC) stocks in soils ranged between 0 and 36 Mg/ha, which were generally < 1 Mg/ha in the north-eastern region and more than 7 Mg/ha in the south-western region. Organic C concentration in soils was related to silt and clay content and there were indications of saturation and depletion of soil organic C. Adoption of management practices such as organic farming in rice-wheat system reduced tillage in dryland maize-wheat systems and resulted in C sequestration and improvement of biochemical health of soils. Development of chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs) of rice from elite × wild crosses to map QTLs/genes for yield traits: CSSLs are a library of back cross inbred lines representing entire donor AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 108 introgressions as overlapping segments in the genetic background of elite cultivated genotype. These are important prebreeding resource for mapping and cloning of QTL or genes of interest. Seven popular Indian rice varieties; Swarna, MTU1010, Dhanarasi, Rasi, Krishnahamsa, Vandana and Varadhan were used as recurrent parents and 3 accessions O. rufipogon and O. nivara with high photosynthetic rates as donor parents. Crosses from MTU1010 × O. rufipogon and Swarna × O. rufipogon were advanced upto BC4F1 generation by genome-wide genotyping and backcrossing.