 Apparatus and method for gravity flow regulated re-circulatory mariculture system and rearing marine species therein; Closed aquaculture system using upwelling flow for brood stocking; Compacted dampish air permeability transportation method of sea weeds species; Composition, protocol and diagnostic kit for identification of bacterial pathogen Lactococcus garvieae; Breeding, nurturing and rearing mollusks; Design and operation of a system for the breeding and initial larval rearing of black soldier fly Hermetia illucens; Living juvenile lobster transportation method and apparatus; Long- distance transportation of live post-larval marine finfish; System and sustainable improved method for integrated culturing marine finfish; System for year-round repeated breeding and higher robust fry production of Golden Mahseer etc. Compositions for dissolving mealybug wax; Enriched process to produced potassium; Enriched compost from low-grade silicate minerals or potassium bearing mineral; Antimicrobial composition for coating rhizomes and tubers; Insect trapping device with a combination of light and pheromone; In-vitro engineering of bio-immune formulation for inducing Fusarium wilt tolerance in banana plants; Novel DUF740 polynucleotide associated with multiple stress tolerance form Rice; Shatpad-banana-a herbal repellent formulation for Odoipourus longicollis etc. Animal Health and Nutrition Food Processing Farm Machinery Fish (Aqua/Marine) Products and Processes Plant Nutrition and Protection KaMilk, NINFET Power, Preg-D, Spiisry, Shining Barb, Srinidhi, Vanashree etc. Total of 189 trademark applications have been filed by 27 ICAR institutes. Capacity building activities: To create awareness in the area of innovation management and technology transfer, different ICAR institutes have organized various capacity building programmes at institute/zonal/ national level. In this process, 25 ICAR institutes organized 83 awareness generation programs/interface/ product-specific meets/workshops/seminars. About 4,995 scientists/researchers/business professionals/ farmers/social workers participated and benefited from these programmes. Review-cum-Sensitization workshop of ZTMUs/ ITMUs/PMEs under NAIF Scheme: The Review cum Sensitization workshop was held from 5-11 October 2021. All Review cum Sensitization workshop of ZTMUs/ITMUs/PMEs have participated in the ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 161 workshop. The objective of the meeting was to sensitize the participants about the guidelines developed under this scheme, operational issues, online updating of IP data on KRISHI portal, issues regarding admin and finance besides review of work done at different institutes. All the ZTMUs presented their progress and also discussed the challenges in technology transfer. It was stressed that as per the guidelines Agrinnovate India Ltd, is the nodal agency of the technology transfer of all ICAR technologies.