 *Corresponding author’s e-mail: rajiv_kvk@rediffmail.com For obtaining copies: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@icar.org.in Post-harvest Management and Processing of Fruits and Vegetables Post-harvest management technology offers promising option for increasing production of vegetables and fruits quantity-wise and also in maintaining quality of the products. It involves all the activities that occur after production or harvesting of commodities, including procurement, removal of field heat, sorting, grading, packaging, storage, transportation, primary and secondary processing and marketing of agricultural products from farm-gate to distributors. This book is an effort to document vast available knowledge on the various aspects of post-harvest management and processing, and it will prove worthy for teachers, students and extension workers for understanding post-harvest management and processing of fruits and vegetables. It has 16 chapters covering storage, packaging, advanced preservation technology and value-addition of fruits and vegetables. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Size : Royal Octavo (16 cm x 24 cm) No. of pages : i-viii + 250 Price : Rs 350 Postage : Rs 50 Binding : Paper Back ISBN No. : 978-81-7161-115-4 Indian Farming 39 April 2023 Organic cultivation of turmeric by Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) in Bundelkhand region Guru Dayal*, Satyavir Singh and Ekanshu Pahade Institute of Agricultural Sciences, Bundelkhand University, Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh 284 128 The major aim of the turmeric cultivation is due to its properties such as antibiotic, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial, antitumor, cepto-protective (to protect the liver), cardio- protective (to protect the heart) etc. which proves as very useful for curing various diseases. Turmeric powder is used as spices since a very long time. The essential component present in turmeric is known as curcumin which has many medicinal properties. It also has some amount of essential oils, which is volatile in nature. This crop is very useful and the beneficiary results can be brought by following the scientific methods of cultivation, such as good agricultural practices (GAP). This crop has been proven very useful for the farmers continuing their agriculture practices in a barren land. Also the farmer’s can produce quite a good income by the cultivation of this crop. Keywords: Field trial, Good agricultural practices, Post-harvest practices, Varietal study of turmeric T URMERIC (Curcuma longa L.) is an important spice crop along with some medicinal benefits and many more points that benefits farmer’s. The compound that is responsible for the medicinal purposes is curcuminoids. This crop generally originates from Tropical South Asia. Every house in India uses it as a major condiment in cooking.