 Evaluation of training is vital in the training process for the following reasons: ï To determine the extent and degree of a training programme fulfilling its set objective ï To verify the suitability and feasibility of the objectives set for the training programme ï To provide feedback on the performance of the trainees, trainers, the quality of training and other facilities provided ï To identify and analyze whether the training content and training methods are in line with the objectives intended to be achieved ï To enable improvements in the assessment of training needs ï To aid the learning process of the trainees by providing the knowledge of results ï To highlights the impact of training on the behaviour and performance of individuals In general, the training programmes are being evaluated by all the Organizing Institutes and taking the feedback of the trainees on various aspects of training for further improvement. Such evaluation of trainees and trainers are also sent to HRM Unit, ICAR HQs which are analyzed and assessed to redefine the programmes, its objectives, methodology, training content, suitable type of trainees, logistics and facilities to organize the programme Rating Grading (% ATP Implemented) <20 Extremely poor 20-39 Very Poor 40-49 Poor 50-59 Satisfactory 60-69 Good 70-79 Very Good 80 and above Excellent 24 HRM INITIATIVES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF ICAR (2014-18) successfully in meaningful manner. The third party evaluation shall be done in future for better assessment of training programmes. 7.6 Impact Assessment of Training Programmes The main objective of the assessment of training programmes is to find out whether the given training creating any impact on the job behaviour or performance of the trainees or not. This involves collecting feedback from the trainee himself/herself and his/her immediate Reporting Officer so as to know whether there has been any perceptible improvement in his/her job behaviour and performance. For the first time, Impact Assessment of training programmes attended during 2016-17 by various categories of employees was done. A total of 106 ICAR-Institutes submitted Impact Assessment Report for 2211 trainees who had attended any training programme during 2016-17 with an average age of 43.5 years and average experience of 16.6 years. Out of 2211 participants, 403 were the female participants. The parameters/proforma developed by DoPT for this purpose was used (DoPT, 2016). Based on the feedback of Trainees received from different ICAR-Institutes, the overall Impact of training was Considerable - Great Extent with average rating of 3.75/5.00 (Table 8). Similarly, based on the feedback of Reporting Officers of the Trainees received from different ICAR-Institutes, the overall impact of trainings on Trainees was also Considerable- Great Extent with average rating of 3.55/5.00 (Table 9). Table 8. Feedback by the TRAINEES on the impact of training on their job Table 9.