 The people of Uttarkashi have traditionally developed technique for construction of earthquake resistant houses by using locally available materials i.e. wood, stone and mud mortar. This type of houses has been widely constructed. The latest disastrous earthquake was experienced in the year 1991 in the reported area which caused heavy loss to human lives and property. It was seen that mostly those houses got damaged which were not built by traditional method. Field study Information were collected by using PRA tools regarding opinion of people, their technical knowledge and economic aspects. Also observations were taken on materials used in traditional houses, their structure and other technical aspects. From ten worst affected villages (five from each district) 120 respondents were interviewed. Data were collected on comfortness, warmth, durability, availability of material, sanity and safety from earthquakes for traditionally and modern built houses. To measure the perception of people about the various quality parameters of traditional and modern houses, response was taken on 3 point continuum scale whether they strongly agree, agree or disagree and scores were given 2, 1 and 0 respectively. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION Results presented in Table 1 show the important  LOW COST HOUSING MATERIALS Table 1. Perception of owners for the characteristics features of two types of houses village of Ranga Reddy district of Andhra Pradesh during 2002 Parameter Traditional Houses Modern Houses (n=60) (n=60) Total Score Index Value Rank Value Total Score Index Value Rank Value Warmth 72 1.2 II 47 0.78 IV Comfort 69 1.15 III 86 1.43 II Sanitation 43 0.72 V 103 1.72 I Protection from earthquakes 86 1.43 I 28 0.47 V Durability 54 0.90 IV 79 1.32 III Distinctive features present in the wood and stone houses have been presented in Table 2. It is evident that the wood and stone houses have the requisite features that make this technology suitable for the region. Figures 1 and 2 show the extent of damage caused in 1991 earthquake in stone and wood houses and modern building, respectively. Table 2. Distinctive features found in the wood and stone house village of Ranga Reddy district of Andhra Pradesh during 2002 S.No. Feature Scientific Rationale 1. Use of wooden blocks along the wall Act as a shock absorber 2. Wooden tie-bands as beams and vertical To make the load vertical in the wall units timber columns as pins 3. Long stones with flat surfaces To minimize the tendency of the wall stones to push or run outwards 4. Vertical corner reinforcements To distribute the seismic load 5. Low height of the roof To keep the center of gravity low 6. Minimum number of openings To provide good insulation 7. Use of mud and cow dung as plastering material To provide better insulation Fig. 1. Wood and stone houses—no damage due to earthquake Fig. 2. Modern house damaged due to earthquake  LOW COST HOUSING MATERIALS Reasons for not building traditional type house by the villagers 1.