 Further, for accelerating the coordinated research on different crop commodities, the All India Coordinated Research Projects (AICRP) for multi-location evaluation of varieties and technologies was started in 1957 with AICRP on the Maize. During the same period, the Project on Intensification of Regional Research in Cotton, Oilseeds, and Maize (PIRRCOM) was established under the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), New Delhi and various crop centres were established. Subsequently, during 1960-70, AICRPs on several other crop commodities such as rice, cotton, pearl millet, small millets, etc. were commenced to generate breeding materials, crop production, and protection technologies and their testing in multi-location trials. The concept of the AICRPs, which are 60 at present (22 in crop science division), has been one of structural contributions in the field of organization and management of multi-location agricultural research in India. The first cereal crop hybridization in maize resulted in the development of Ganga series, Ranjit, and Deccan hybrids. The first sorghum hybrid, CSH-1 was released in 1964. India became the first country to develop composite maize in 1967 and successfully developed pearl millet and cotton hybrids first time in the 1970s. Subsequently, hybrids have been developed in other crops including castor, safflower, rice, pigeonpea, sunflower, and rapeseed-mustard. A turning point in the Indian cotton breeding program was the release of the World’s first hybrid (H4) in 1970, which has long-staples with good uniformity. During the 1970–1990s, national agriculture research priorities shifted towards conservation and improvement of genetic resources of other crops like oilseeds and pulses to raise productivity. The research efforts were supported by the Government’s ambitious programme on Technology Mission on Oilseeds (TMO) launched in 1986 and later in 1991, pulses were included under the Mission to make it Technology Mission on Oilseeds & Pulses (TMOP). This resulted in the country’s oilseed production surpassing the target of 18 Mt by 1989-90 and quantum jump in oilseed production from 10.83 Mt (1985-86) to 24.75 Mt (1998-99). This golden era witnessed the release of 200 HYVs and hybrids of oilseed crops. During past six decades, the consistent efforts in varietal improvement Achievements in Field Crops in Independent India 77 led to the development of more than 5,508 HYVs of all major crops such as rice, wheat, cotton, oilseeds crops, pulses, and sugarcane. The HYV and their matching production and protection technologies have been the hallmarks of the organized research programme in the country. In the past two decades (2001-2021), efforts were intensified to explore new technologies in the field of biotechnology and genetic engineering. Transgenic technology for cotton has proved to be a game-changer leading to sharp rise in its area after 2002 which increased to 11 million ha in the last 19 years.