 The mask will provide higher level safety and comfort to the wearer. Heat generating smart textiles products for cold climates Composite yarns prepared by wrapping conductive carbon filaments with cotton fibres through friction spinning were used to develop flexible heat generating pads for multiple applications. These include heating shoe pads, thermal garments, warming seat covers, heating gloves etc. which can be operated by 5V, 2A DC power supply. A controller was provided to vary the heating rate of these pads to generate the temperature (40 to 80°C) as per the user requirement. A mobile rechargeable power bank (10Ah) can be used in place of DC current to provide the warmth for 7–8 h with single charge. A MoU was signed for transfer of technology for thermal seat covers for automotive applications. Jute fibre grading system Modified Jute Fibre Grading System was developed, in which the grades were reduced to five grades (TD-1 to TD-5) from existing eight grading system (TD-1 to TD-8). The modified grading system was approved by BIS as Fifth Revision (IS 271:2020). The grading system consists of five parameters Strength, Root Content, Defects, Fineness and Colour. For instrumental determination of various characteristics like strength, defects, root content, fineness, etc. reference to the relevant part of IS 7032 will be followed, where value of the corresponding parameters, mentioned in Instrumental Method was optimized using the standard instruments developed by ICAR-NINFET (erstwhile NIRJAFT). Classification of raw jute grading was approved for two cultivars i.e. WHITE jute namely, W-1, W-2, W-3, W-4, and W-5; TOSSA and DAISEE jute namely, TD-l, TD- 2, TD-3, TD-4, and TD-5. Commission for Agricultural Cost & Price (CACP), Government of India adopted five grading system for fixing minimum support price (MSP) of jute and mesta. Process/Products ACE-inhibitory peptides from fish waste Angiotensin-1 Converting Enzyme (ACE) inhibitors control hypertension, one of the cardiovascular diseases killing people silently every year worldwide and is spreading at an alarming rate in India. Pharmaceutical ACE-inhibitory drugs, used to treat hypertension possess drug-associated side-effects like cough, angioedema, chest pain etc., therefore, attempts were made to identify the bioactive peptides having potential therapeutic benefits.ICAR-CIPHET utilized the rohu fish waste (head, fins, scales and swim bladder; 0.9 million tonnes per annum in India) for the extraction of ACE-inhibitory peptides, a high-value nutraceutical product. Extracted peptides showed 55% ACE- inhibition. POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 106 Grass pea (Khesari) flour based muffins The consumption of grass pea (Khesari) flour is limited in different food applications because of presence of undesirable compound β-N-oxalyl-L-α, β- diaminopropionic acid (ODAP). Protein enriched muffins were developed from grass pea flour.