 To generate bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs) for EHV1 for mutagenesis studies and development of recombinant vaccine, mini F plasmid construct was co-transfected along with EHV1 viral DNA in RK13 cells, and through homologous recombination, recombinant-virus-with-GFP was generated in the RK- 13 cells. The construct was electroporated into E. coli cells to generate BACs. Genetic diversity of equine herpesvirus 1 (EHV1): Characterization of EHV1 isolates from different outbreaks revealed that they differ due to single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in a few ORFs, significant being the ORF30 and ORF68. The ORF30 sequence analysis of 24 EHV1 revealed that two of SUCCESS STORY Japanese encephalitis - ELISA kit (IgG) for swine An indirect ELISA kit using rNS1 antigen to detect the IgG antibodies in swine against Japanese encephalitis (JE) virus was developed at the ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar. This is the first indigenous kit developed for serodiagnosis of JE in pigs. Swine, being an amplifier host, plays an important role in epidemiology of JEV and therefore early detection of either JEV or antibodies against JEV in swine is a pre-requisite for initiating necessary measures to prevent the spread of infection to humans. However, a brief period of viraemia hinders detection of JEV and hence detection of antibodies using ELISA is the best alternative. The kit has been developed under the ICAR-funded Outreach Programme on Zoonotic Diseases. The kit has excellent repeatability as revealed in intra- and inter-institutional laboratory validation studies. It possesses an appreciable diagnostic sensitivity (91%) and specificity (98%). Cattle A fast and economical genotyping method for detection of BLAD and CVM was developed and the same was applied for patent. An in-house built lamp assay was developed for rapid detection of cow components adulterated in buffalo milk/meat and an Indian patent was filed. Goat First ‘Indigenous Vaccine’ against Johne’s disease: Vaccine (therapeutic as well as prophylactic) against Johne’s disease was successfully developed, commercialized and was launched after getting license LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 83 Capsid swapping for the construction of custom-engineered chimeric FMD virus Regular vaccination with chemically inactivated FMD vaccine is the major means of controlling the disease in endemic countries like India. However, the selection of appropriate candidate vaccine strain and its adaptation in cell culture to yield high titer of virus is a cumbersome process. An attractive approach to circumvent this tedious process is to replace the capsid coding sequence of an infectious full-genome length cDNA clone of a good vaccine strain with those of appropriate field strains, to produce custom- made chimeric FMD virus. An efficient method based on megaprimer-mediated capsid swapping for the construction of chimeric FMDV cDNA clones, was developed.