 Total 44 such UMoUs were signed with the Central/State Universities. Besides these, 14 Memorandum of Understanding (MoUs) were signed with other organizations to collaborate research activities of national interest. 92nd Foundation Day of ICAR and Award Ceremony Incentivizing individual employees and teams for their outstanding performance, across organizations, makes them more efficient, responsive and productive apart from improving their level of job satisfaction. The awards, besides recognizing merit and accomplishments, generate healthy competition among individuals, groups and institutions to strive and attain still higher levels of excellence in their respective areas of work. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research has been recognizing and rewarding the institutions, scientists, teachers, farmers and agricultural journalists every year. To commemorate 92nd Foundation day of ICAR, the Award ceremony was organized at Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi through video conferencing on 16 July 2020. Various Awards were presented to the winners on the occasion. The awards were given in 20 different categories to 161 awardees, these comprise 94 scientists, 10 administrative personnel (including 2 women), 6 journalists and 31 farmers (including 5 women farmers). It is heartening to note that among 94 scientists, 12 were women. Two Institutes,1 university, two AICRPs, 14 KVKs were also awarded. K 17. Partnership and Linkages DARE International collaboration Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) is a global partnership that unites international organizations engaged in research for a food-secured future. CGIAR research is dedicated to reducing rural poverty, increasing food security, improving human health and nutrition, and ensuring sustainable management of natural resources. India is a donor member country to CGIAR from decades and also a voting member in CGIAR system. The Council, represents South Asia Constituency along with two alternate partner countries, viz. Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. India has assumed important role in CGIAR system as a permanent voting member. This responsibility requires reciprocation from India also. Accordingly, it contributes to CGIAR system through budget provisions of DARE/ICAR. CGIAR research is carried out by 15 CGIAR centers in close collaboration with hundreds of partners, including national and regional research institutes, civil society organizations, academia, development organizations and the private sector. Out of the 15 Centres, ICAR/DARE has strong collaboration in the field of agricultural research, education and capacity building. Work plans • A Work Plan for the period 2020–2021 was signed on 04.12.2019 between Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi, India an autonomous body under the aegis of DARE and The International Fertilizer Development center (IFDC), Alabama, USA.