 Irrigation: Hot and dry period during April to June is the most critical period for the growth of sugarcane. During this period, irrigate the crop at 7 to 12 days interval. Berseem Improved Varieties: BL 43, BL 42 and BL 10 ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 33 Time of Sowing: The last week of September to first week of October is the best time of sowing. Inoculation: The inoculation of berseem with specific Rhizobium culture will increase the forage yield. Seed Rate and Method of Sowing: 8-10 kg seed should be broadcasted in standing water when the weather is calm. For obtaining a high yield of good-quality fodder, mix 750g of mustard seed with the full seed-rate of berseem. Alternatively mix berseem with oats, using 12 kg seed of oats. Manganese Deficiency: Spray the crop twice or thrice with 0.5% manganese sulphate solution (1 kg manganese sulphate in 200 litres of water per acre) at weekly intervals on sunny days. Spray the crop after two weeks of cutting. Weed Control: Under situations where itsit (Trianthema portulacastrum) is a problem, sow berseem mixed with raya which is fast growing crop and exerts tremendous smothering effect on this weed. Irrigation: The first irrigation may be given within 3-5 days in light soils and 6-8 days in heavy soils after sowing. Afterwards it may be applied within 8-10 days during summer and 10-15 days during winter. Harvesting: First cutting is ready in about 50 days after sowing and subsequent cuttings at 40 days intervals during winter and 30 days intervals in spring, thus giving 4-6 cuttings in all. Pea Improved Varieties: Early maturing varieties: AP-3, Matar Ageta-7, Matar Ageta-6 and Arkel Main season varieties: Punjab-89 and Mithi Phali Sowing and Seed Rate: Sowing from mid-October to mid- November give the best crop in the plains and spacing should be ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 34 30×7.5 cm for early and 30×10 cm for main season varieties by inoculating with Rhizobium leguminosarum. Use seed 45 kg for early maturing and 30 kg for main season variety per acre. Manures and Fertilizers: Apply 8 tonnes of farmyard manure, 20 kg of N (45 kg Urea) and 25 kg P2O5 (155 kg Superphosphate) per acre before sowing. Weed Control: For chemical weed control use Stomp 30 EC (pendimethalin) @1.0 litre per acre within 2 days of sowing. Potato Improved Varieties Early Varieties: Kufri Surya, Kufri Pukhraj, Kufri Ashoka, Kufri Chandramukhi, Mid-Season Varieties: Kufri Pushkar, Kufri Bahar, Kufri Jyoti Late Varieties: Kufri Badshah, Kufri Sindhuri Processing Varieties: Kufri Frysona, Kufri Chipsona-3, Kufri Chipsona-1 Seed Rate: For autumn sowing 13-18 q/acre seed tubers of 40- 50 g weight should be used for planting.