 18 ● There is a need to re-assess continuing Sericulture and Forestry under Agricultural Higher Education as the ICFRE is also engaged in the promotion of this faculty. Till such time, there must be a single accreditation Review Team compromising of nominees drawn both from ICFRE and ICAR. Similarly for disciplines related to Biotechnology DBT nominees may be included in the Accreditation Review Team. ● There is a need to develop robust database on crop losses and such a database would be of help for crop insurance companies. These documents may be placed in the next VC Conference. Dr C. Devakumar ADG (EPD) profusely thanked Dr S. Ayyappan, Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR for guiding the two-day meeting with his continuous and energizing presence, Dr Arvind Kumar, DDG (Edn.) for his constant encouragement, Dr P. Raghav Reddy, VC, ANGRAU, Hyderabad and his entire team of the organizing committee for the outstanding hospitality and organization of the meet, Deans and other officers of AUs for their overwhelming participation, VCs of AUs for deputing the officials, Dr P.K. Joshi, Dr Viraktamath, Dr D.M. Hegde and Dr Venkateswarlu the Directors of ICAR institutes for their benign participation in the meeting and Dr R.K. Mittal ADG (EQR) for his valuable support and guidance. 19 ANNEXURE-I BREAK-OUT SESSION: SUB-GROUPS (26 June 2010, 9:00 am to 10:00 am) AGRICULTURE Facilitators : Dr H.S. Gaur Dean, Indian Agricultural Research Institute New Delhi Dr (Mrs) S.K. Mann Dean, Post Graduate Studies & Chairperson RIC (Agriculture) Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana Rapporteur : Dr A. Siva Sankar, ANGRAU, Hyderabad Deans of SAUs’ and Associated Deans of constituent colleges participated in the interaction meeting. During the interaction it was felt that faculty must maintain and sustain the place in terms of relevance and status in the rapidly changing globalised competitive era. It was pointed out that long term and short term plans need to be drawn to develop strategies based on strength and opportunities. During the interaction following points were discussed: ● Sharing of human resources (Faculty & Students), infrastructural facilities and germplasm ● Updating and upgrading current methods of teaching including e- learning ● Attracting more students towards agriculture From the interaction following points emerged: ● More number of students in P.G. need to be given scholarships ● Increasing the ICAR quota of seats in SAUs (from 15% to 25% in UG and from 25% to 40% in PG) was advocated. ● Some seats may be reserved for nomination by States and wards of ICAR employees. 20 ● Sharing of faculty of excellence after identification of core faculty available in SAUs ● Encouraging students in postgraduate programme with national and international collaboration. ● Faculty upgradation need to be strengthened ● Critical areas of grants for improving infrastructure may be examined and supported without duplication.