 The salient features of forage crops are short growth period, closer spacing with dense stand to smother weeds, flexible crop duration to adjusted risk due to aberrant weather conditions, high persistency and regeneration, shy seed producer, wider adaptability with capacity to grow under stress conditions, high nutrient and water requirement under intensive cropping and multicut nature. Forage production in rainfed areas In rainfed condition, different aspects of rainfall like amount, duration, intensity and distribution are uncertain. In the absence of irrigation facilities, crop production depends on moisture conserved regimes. These uncertainties are highly unstable and lead to low productivity and poor income. The major constraints of forage production in rainfed areas are erratic rainfall, dry spells, poor soil quality, limited choice of crops and poor socio-economic conditions of the farmers with limited risk bearing ability. Forage crops and grasses are better suited for growing under moisture-stress situations. Besides, rain water-conservation techniques and soil fertility management are also required since the soils are not only thirsty but hungry also. Alternate land use systems like agroforestry having perennial forage trees, bushes and grasses are essential to provide sustainability to the forage production. Soil and crop management techniques for forage production in rainfed areas Bunding: To retain rainwater in the soil, at least 30 cm high bunds are needed. On light soils, grasses should be planted on bunds to make them stable. On sloppy lands, bunds are formed along the contour or across the slope. Tillage: On sandy and other light-textured soils, cultivation should be limited to the extent essential for weed control and optimum tilth for seeding. Light cultivation with about 15 cm depth is enough. On heavy soils, deep ploughing once in three years helps to improve water infiltration. Cultivation should be done Indian Farming 75 (01): 53-56; January 2025 Indian Farming 54 January 2025 across the slope on sloppy lands. Manuring: An amount of 10-15 tonnes FYM or compost/ha should be applied every year along with appropriate doses of chemical fertilizers depending on crops under cultivation and season. Fertilizers are placed 2-3 cm below the seed line with the help of seed-cum- fertilizer drill or other equipment. Spray fertilization is also important in dryland areas. Sowing: Crop should always be grown in rows to facilitate inter cultivation for checking weed growth and mulching to prevent water loss from the soil. The plant population should be about 25% less to ensure better utilization of limited moisture. Depending on the field conditions, ridge and furrow method and strip cropping can also be adopted. Choice of forage species: Forages are better suited to moisture-stress situations since the duration of crop harvest can be adjusted.