 Just an increase in the number of university degrees would not be sufficient but the scientific Science-led Agricultural Development: Gandhian Thoughts 134 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR manpower should substantially increase. He wished that students should be exposed extensively to the dynamic view of scientific knowledge and should not be just engrossed to the structured, disciplinary-bounded truths about the world. 2.3. Gandhiji on Technology Gandhiji is recognized as an early adopter of developing and improving technologies using crowdsourcing. A competition was organized by him in 1929, with a cash prize, for designing a lightweight spinning wheel for producing thread using raw cotton. Gandhiji opined that the negative impacts of technologies are often faced disproportionately by the poor rural populations. Gandhian politics intended to redefine science and technology encompassing modern ideas. The criticisms of terms such as ‘modern’ ‘machinery’ etc., which were to an extent alien to the ‘Indian civilization’, were also given due concern while integrating them into ideas of democracy and equality, (Habib 1995). 2.4. Gandhiji on Machines and Mechanization Gandhiji was not against machine per se and insisted that it should meet two aims, namely self- sufficiency and full employment. According to Gandhiji, villagers would have no objection to use modern machines and tools if they could make and comfortably use. Gandhiji’s concept of development emphasized the uplift of the common man. He preferred village habitats to be protected by promoting Swadeshi craft instead of depending on imported technology for economic well-being. He supported adopting cottage industries instead of setting-up heavy industries in rural areas. He emphasized that education, health, and vocation should be properly integrated for effective and sustainable rural development. Gandhiji, through his writings, provided his ideas and holistic meaning of thoughts on specific issues and did not strive to particularly influence the academic audience. Bakker (1990) attributes this to Gandhiji, not being quoted much in the social science literature on social change. Gandhiji said, “It is quite strong to say I don’t believe in machinery. This spinning wheel is a beautiful piece of machinery”. “How can I be against machinery? This body itself is the most delicate machinery”. He called upon the scientists to invent new machines and equipment to serve humanity and not for maximizing profit. Science and technology must focus on serving the poor and not making fortunes for the rich. Gandhiji had a fascination for the sewing machine. He noted it as a product of the love of its inventor to his wife. Mahatma Gandhi, who eschewed many other machines, made an exception for Singer sewing machine, which eased the life of many women in the world.