 The book includes all the topics prescribed by ICAR for the Postgraduate students of Soil Science. The introductory chapter describes basic definitions of soil science. Chapters like ‘Bonding in solid structures’, ‘Elements of crystallography’, ‘Chemical thermodynamics’ and ‘Electrochemistry of soils and clays’ are basic in nature and have been dealt very lucidly for easy understanding of students. Two chapters on characterisation of soil minerals are practical oriented. Other chapters focus on the structures of soil minerals, weathering and formation of minerals in soil environment, adsorption and ion exchange on soil colloids, double layer theory of soil colloids–its evolution and application, chemisorption and precipitation reactions in soil, soil organic colloids and their properties and chemistry of submerged soil. This book will be very much useful for the Postgraduate students of Soil Science. Textbook on Physical Chemistry and Mineralogy of Soils TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-xii + 348 • Price : ` 650 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-228-1 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Fusarium rot disease managed through ICAR-NBAIR bio-agents by farmer Mr. Manikandan invites indiscriminate use of synthetic pesticides. For safer and continuous higher sustainable production, attention is needed on good agricultural practices through eco-friendly management of pests and diseases. The ICAR-NBAIR, Bengaluru has developed several bio-agents viz., Bacillus thuringiensis, Beauveria bassiana, Apantele sp., Friona sp., entomopathogenic fungus Lecanicillium __lecani, Anthocorid _ bug, chrysoperla sp., entamopathogenic Nematode (EPN), Paecilomyces lilacinus Plft5 (P155), Bacillus subtilis, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Glomus fasciculatum, Trichoderma viride and Trichoderma harzianum are effective for eco-friendly management of major insect pests of cardamom - shoot and capsule borer, thrips, root grubs and nematode as well as major diseases of cardamom- capsule rot/panicle rot, clump rot and Fusarium rot. These technologies were widely disseminated among farmers by ICAR-KVK, Idukki through various activities. This has led farmers to adopt ICAR-NBAIR technologies for eco-friendly management of small cardamom thereby reduced usage of chemical pesticides, saved expenditure on plant protection, grown healthy crop, harvested quality produce and brought small cardamom production system sustainable. In fact, eco-friendly technologies and practices are low input demanding, energy efficient and cause little or minimum disturbance to the production system.