 Its main limitation is that it can not be moved even within the orchard and so is useful for stationary bee keeping (HimachalPradesh). Verma (1998) 7 Log hive It is prepared by the hollowing of a piece of trunkclosing both of its ends with piece of tin/wooden plank/stone mixed with cowdung and clay and boring a small hole of 6 mm diameter alongwith its length to serve as an entrance, 4-5 strips of old combs are fixed at 3cm apart at each end before use. There are horizontal vertical log hives. The vertical one is very similar to the horizontal one except it is placed in an upright position on a piece of tin or flat stone with 5- Verma (1998) 293 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 6 entrances or holes above the base. This is advantageous as it is amenable for shifting to orchards for pollination and also is portable up to short distances and main constraint lies with these hives is the scientific management of colonies is not possible and only squeezed honey can be extracted (Himachal Pradesh). 8 Banana ripening Banana fruits wrapped in grass/cloth is ripened in soil pit and also enhances its storage period (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 9 Packing of pickles In lower parts of Himachal Pradesh mangoes, galgal, lime are pickled in earthen pots. The pots are sterilized using fumes generated from burning red chillies alongwith Asafoetida (heeng) and a little mustard oil. The top of the container is covered with a lid made of wood. The fumes have antimicrobial properties (Lower parts of Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 10 Drying and preservation of meat Meat strips are dried by hanging on strings tied across the room. Due to heavy snow and low temperature, spoilage of the product is prevented. Due to low relative humidity meat dries well and preserved for longer period. In some places salt is also sprinkled which assists in preservation. In Nako and Nalling areas of Kinnaur meat is hung in kitchen. The smoke from earth chullah serves to smoke the meat and preserves it. In Mandi, Kullu meat is smeared with mixture of mustard oil and turmeric powder which act as antimicrobials (Shimla, Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 11 Preparation of dried ginger Fresh ginger upon soaking in water is rubbed against gunny bags and is placed in bamboo basket to remove the peel. The coarsely peeled ginger is then dipped in lime solution, followed by rinsing and drying under open sun. The dried product is called south (Shillai and Renuka areas of Sirmour, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 294 FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 12 Distillation of fermented liquid Fermented liquid is boiled in a vessel called baltoiat the base of which a temporary stand is made under which a cantainer is placed to collect distilled liquor.