 (from which bai-ji is derived), the rhizomes and stems of Anoectochilus spp. (jin-xian-lian) and the corms of Cremastra appendiculata (D.Don) Makino, Pleione bulbocodioides (Franch.) Rolfe and P. yunnanensis (Rolfe) Rolfe (from which shan-ci-gu is prepared) too have some potential clinical significance. Around 94 species of orchids counting Crepidium acuminatum (D.Don) Szlach., Habenaria intermedia D.Don, Herminium edgeworthii (Hook.f. ex Collett) X.H. Jin, Schuit., Raskoti & Lu Q.Huang and Malaxis muscifera (Lindl.) Kuntze have significant role in ayurvedic medicines. Eulophia spp. (E. dabia (D.Don) Hochr. & E. spectabilis) and D. hatagirea are medicinally valuable in various parts of India, and is used to treat a range of ailments. The latter one is abundantly available in north-eastern Himalayan region of Sikkim while Paphiopedilum druryi endemic to South India become critically endangered for its relentless harvesting to meet the medicinal demand. Edible orchids Apart from its medicinal uses, orchids could also be utilized as source of foods for the nutrient rich content (Table 1) having global importance such as vanilla flavourings (extracts of Vanilla Plum. ex Mill.).The dried seed pods of Vanilla (especially Vanilla planifolia), are commercially important as a flavouring in baking, for perfume manufacture and aromatherapy. Except this species, the hybrid Vanilla × tahitensis J W Moore is the second most cultivated one. The principal vanilla-growing areas are Madagascar, Mexico, French Polynesia, Réunion, Dominica, Indonesia, the West Indies, Seychelles, and Puerto Rico. Phalaenopsis bellina Bulbophyllum Dendrobium orchid Vanilla orchid flower Cattleya orchid Laelia speciosa January–February 2022 35 Some other edible products are used on national and regional scales. Processed orchids are eaten either as relish or just as a snack. In south-eastern part of Africa, edible orchids are popular as ‘Chinaka’, a delicacy which shields from several diseases, and furnishes energy. The most preferred orchid species resides to 3 genera namely Disa sp. P J Bergius, Habenaria sp. and Satyrium cursonii L., but Brachycorythis Lindl., Eulophia R.Br. & Roeperocharis Rchb.f. could also be used to feed. In general, female orchids are preferred over male. Mixing of female and male orchids improve quality (texture and colour) and taste. The quality of ‘Chinaka’ is also influenced by expertise and experience in cooking. It involves cleaning the tubers and pounding them in a mortar using a pestle. The pounded tubers are then cooked together with a locally made baking powder (NaHCO3) for a few minutes until a hard-starchy substance is produced. Upon cooling, the starchy substance becomes thick and viscous followed by cut into small pieces and cooked with groundnut sauce, or tomatoes. The cooked pieces can also be simply eaten as a snack. On the other hand, few species of Habenaria Willd.