 Sheep The analysis of data on growth and prolificacy traits of inter-se mated Avishaan sheep over the four generations revealed that the prolificacy in Avishaan sheep over the four generations ranged from 59.5 to 71.4% with litter size from 1.66 to 1.81 at birth. Average ewe productivity efficiency (EPE) at 3-month of age of lambs was 21.6 kg (19.7 to 24.2 kg in four generations), whereas, corresponding figure for the same period was 15.1 kg in monotocous Malpura. Under multi-location field testing programme, a total of 152 (74 male and 78 female) Avishaan sheep possessing FecB gene were provided to farmers and government agency of Rajasthan, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka. Network Project on Sheep Improvement (NWPSI): Presently, there are six ongoing centres including four farm units (annual target of 50 rams sale/ distribution) and two field units (annual target of 100 rams sale/distribution) located at different states of the country. Coordinating cell is located at ICAR-CSWRI, Avikanagar, Rajasthan. A total of 461 male and 230 female sheep of different breeds were sold for genetic improvement of farmer’s flock. Mega Sheep Seed Project (MSSP): The major objective of the project is improvement of indigenous sheep breeds by propagation of superior germplasm in the farmers’ flock by production and distribution/sale of 70 superior breeding rams to cover at least 2500 breeding ewes of farmers annually by each of the four units. Poultry AICRP on Poultry Breeding: During the year, a total of 585,374 chicken germplasm was distributed to 4,819 farmers/beneficiaries from different centres. The Mannuthy centre evaluated the S-33 generation of IWN and IWP strains of White Leghorn. AAU, Anand centre evaluated native chicken, i.e. Ankaleshwar and White Leghorn strains. The Bangalore and Ludhiana centres evaluated PB-1 (male line), PB-2 (female line) and native chicken populations. MPUAT, Udaipur centre evaluated Mewari and Pratapdhan populations. AAU, Guwahati centre evaluated the Kamrupa variety, indigenous chicken and Dahlem Red populations. The Palampur centre evaluated the performance of Himsamridhi. The Jabalpur centre evaluated G-2 population of Jabalpur colour and Kadaknath breed. Agartala centre evaluated the performance of Tokbari and in the E-6 evaluation, the 72 weeks egg production was 159.3 and 138.8 eggs under farm and field conditions, respectively. Pedigreed random bred control populations were maintained at ICAR-DPR, Hyderabad.