 Thakur studied the effect of management factors on increasing the productivity of Sali (winter rice) and Boro (spring rice) system for high productivity at AAU, station at Shillonani. The Boro season variety × planting date combination involving varieties Jyotiprasad and Bishnuprasad transplanted between February 10–14 led to higher system productivity of 12 tonnes/ha in 2001–02 and 9 tonnes/ha in 2001–02 in 141–143 days compared to yields 1 tonnes/ha lower than those planted 15 days earlier. l Professor D. V. Singh studied the common scab disease of radish caused by Streptomyces aureofaciens, which was widely prevalent in all agroclimatic regions of Uttar Pradesh with the incidence up to 90% in severe cases and ranging between 3.9–19%. The disease management was possible by the seed treatment with Pseudomonas fluorescens and antibiotics like Streptocycline, Agrimycin 100, Agrobiotech and Paushamycin. NATIONAL ACADEMY OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT, HYDERABAD The National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM), is the premier Institute entrusted with the responsibility to achieve higher levels of professional management in agricultural research and education. Marking the 25 years of its establishment, the Academy organized a National Seminar on Management—A key for improved performance as a part of Silver Jubilee- Foundation Day Celebrations on September 1, 2002. In the Academy’s efforts to improve the foundation course based on the participants feedback, the FOCARS training was organized through a modular approach for the first time. It resulted in tangible gains in the form of learning outcomes. The Field Experience Training was organized on the priniciples of ‘seeing is believing’ and ‘learning by doing’ through multi-disciplinary participatory approach. The Academy organized 34 training programmes and a total of 833 participated in these programmes. It conducted off-campus programme at the Postgraduate institute of Agriculture, University of Peradeniya, Sri Lanka. A three months International Programme on Agricultural Research Management was organized for Yemen scientists at the request of the Government of Yemen and the FAO. l The Academy organized 34 Training programmes and total of 833 participated in these programmes. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 160 A National Seminar on “Veterinary Drugs and Pharmaceuticals” was organized in collaboration with the Department of Science and Technology, New Delhi, to improve collaborative research with private sector. One of the significant achievements of the year include Pilot Distance Training on the theme “Focusing Agricultural Research on Poverty Alleviation”, under the ISNAR-NAARM collaborative project, which was implemented in five SAUs. The Academy developed an on-line data base (http://icar.naarm.ernet.in) on institutions in Indian NARS and a district level agri-database, which was used to develop prioritization of rainfed research using GIS.