 Provide molasses to pregnant stock @ 30 to 50 gm with concentrate feed Ensure proper nutrition of the stock comprising of 1 to 1.5 kg dry fodder (oats/ MP Chari/Sorghum varieties/ Jungle hay) and 500 gms of concentrate (homemade/ procured from the market) for improving dam lamb performance Take livestock outside for watering; it shall ensure movement and exercise of the pregnant stock to avoid pregnancy toximia If possible, provide turnips 200 to 300 gm per pregnant livestock to avoid pregnancy toximia Provide proper ventilation in the animal houses/sheds to avoid accumulation of obnoxious gases Prepare for lambing / kidding in advance. Keep tincture iodine, feeders and other first aid available in the lambing sheds Prepare a separate pen/ room with heating arrangements for weak, crippled, orphan, and hypothermic lambs. It besides proper management shall ensure routine monitoring of the vulnerable lot. Ensure proper bedding of the lambing pens Ensure cleaning of the dams after parturition. Allow normal lambing to take place. Do not disturb the animal during the lambing process. Provide slight assistance in lambing as and when needed, otherwise refer the case to a veterinarian in case of dystocia/difficult birth. Dip the navel cord of lamb in tincture iodine to avoid joint ill/navel ill etc in lambs ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 65 Check the milking ability of dams at the time of parturition. Provide bottle feeding/ fostering of lambs born to dams with mastitis or less milking ability. Keep lambs in a draft free warm environment particularly for 1st week after birth Provide creep mixture after ten days of age to lambs for better growth performance Attend hypothermic lambs immediately Colour mark lambs and their dams to avoid mismothering Immediately refer entropion and ectopion conditions in lambs to a veterinarian. Periodic weighing of lambs shall help in detection of problems in advance. Proper sanitation in and around the paddocks/sheds particularly lambing sheds. The lambing area should be kept clean and dry to avoid infections to the newborn lambs/kids. Provide coccidiostats/cidals after two weeks of lamb/kid birth Vaccinate the lambs with ETV after one month Avoid visitors in and around the lambing sheds Cattle Winters are very severe in Kashmir wherein temperature dips below zero and there is non-availability of green fodders during this period. The cattle are managed intensively within the sheds. As such it is advised as under: Sanitation and cleanness in and around the livestock sheds should be prioritised. Regular monitoring for cold and nutritional stress. Ensure proper ventilation by frequent opening of windows and doors for removal of obnoxious gases accumulated in the closed sheds. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 66 Access to adlib clean warm water for drinking and avoid overcrowding in the sheds. Provide proper bedding if temperature dips below zero.