 Sexes are separate and well distinguished with female having bulging abdomen and male with oozing milt. ŠŠ Brooders of size 400-500 g are used for breeding in small circular carp hatchery. Several pairs (1 female : 2 males) depending on the size of spawning tank are placed in the tank after giving hormonal injection of Ovaprim/Ovatide/Gonopore FH @ 0.5 ml/kg to female and 0.2 ml/kg to male. ŠŠ Spawning occurs after 6-8 h. Female lays 2.0-2.5 lakh/kg body weight. Eggs are non-adhesive, semi-buoyant and white. ŠŠ The eggs are transferred to circular hatching tank as in case of other carp species. Hatching occurs within 20-22 h with 80-90% hatching rate, and grow to spawn size in around 72 h. ŠŠ Spawn is reared in outdoor nursery ponds/tanks for rearing to fry with formulated powdered feed for about 25-30 days to get fry stage. ŠŠ The seed production is widely practiced in West Bengal, Odisha, Assam, Manipur and Uttar Pradesh. Compiled by: Dr Sudhir Raizada More information: Director, ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources, Lucknow Email: director.nbfgr@icar.gov.in 9 Compiled by: Dr N.N. Pandey and Dr D. Sarma More information: Director, ICAR-Directorate of Coldwater Fisheries Research, Bhimtal, Uttarakhand Email: director.dcfr@icar.gov.in Kali Rohu Labeo dyocheilus (McClelland) ŠŠ Kali Rohu is widely distributed in colder regions of Indian sub-continent and parts of south- east Asia. This minor carp species is having potential for aquaculture in low to moderate coldwater areas. ŠŠ Grows to more than a foot size and suitable for addition in carp polyculture system, particularly in ponds having good periphyton growth. ŠŠ Sexes are separate and distinguishable; females having bulgy abdomen and red vent and males slender having prominent nuptial tubercles on snout, rough pectoral fins and ooze milky-milt on pressing belly. ŠŠ Breeds only in flowing waters during monsoon. Though matures in the first year but for captive breeding, fully mature brooders of age 3+ years (650-700 g) from ponds are used. ŠŠ Pairs of fully mature females and males are made in the ratio of 1:2 and injected with available commercial hormone (Ovatide/Gonopro FH) @ 0.6 ml/kg body weight to females and 0.3 ml/kg body weight to males. After injection, they are kept in spawning tanks of the circular hatchery for spawning. ŠŠ Spawning occurs after 8-10 h with laying of transparent, non-adhesive and semi-buoyant round eggs. The hydrated eggs measure diameter of 2.6-3.4 mm. Higher fertilization levels of 80-95% is generally obtained. Female lays 1.8 to 2.0 lakh eggs/kg body weight. ŠŠ Eggs are incubated in spawning tanks of circular carp hatchery at 18-22°C water temperature with 65-80% spawn recovery. ŠŠ Spawn is reared in outdoor concrete tanks for raising fry at density of 10 million/ha. ŠŠ The seed production is practiced mainly in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh for conservation.