 Role of histone modification (H3K4me3 for activation and H3K27me3 for repression) was examined using ChIP- Seq; several differentially binding sites (DBSs) and the associated genes for modified H3 were identified. The role of DNA methylation is being examined using bisulfite sequencing and context specific (CG, CHG and CHH) differential methylation is observed during compatible and incompatible interactions. A number of disease response genes undergoing differential methylation have been identified including the cross interactions involving histone modifications, gene Variation in NUE among rice germplasm under N-deficit SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 176 bioinformatics tool, gRNA sequence was predicted and is in the process of cloning. Potential gene mining from salt tolerant grasses for improvement of salt tolerance in crops: Thirty- four differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from grass halophytes, Urochondra setulosa and Dichanthium annulatum showing high level of expression during salt stress were compared with DEGs in salt tolerant rice, CSR10 for salinity stress during reproductive stage @12 and 18 ds/m. The analysis showed two genes involved in trehalose metabolism (Trehalose 6-P synthase, Trehalose 6-P Phosphatase) were co- expressed both in Urochondra and Dicanthium at salt stress >18 dS/m. However, co-expression pattern was not identified in CSR 10 @ 18 dS/m and in contrast trehalase gene was differentially expressed in salt stress. Therefore, differential co-expression of trehalose biosynthesis genes could be one of the major mechanisms for salinity tolerance in Urochondra and Dicanthium. Dehydrin gene from Urochondra was cloned in pCAMBIA1304 binary vector and transformed in CSR 10. Characterization, mapping and transcriptome analysis of chickpea: Four hundred and four chickpea germplasm were characterized for total seed protein content at 3 locations (ICAR-IARI New Delhi, PAU Ludhiana and ICAR-IIPR Kanpur) and for Fe, Zn and -carotene at two locations ((ICAR-IARI, New Delhi and PAU, Ludhiana). GNG 1581, GNG 2144, Pusa 3022, HK 4, JG 14, Pusa 128 and Phule G 95311 are the recently released chickpea varieties having the best combination of grain yield, grain protein, Fe, Zn, and -carotene. High yielding cultivars were found to contain higher amounts of seed, Zn and Fe. There was negative correlation of phytic acid with Zn and Fe. GNG 2171, KWR 108, Pusa 128, JAKI 9218, GBM 2 and Phule G 95311 are the HYVs containing high Fe and Zn with low phytic acid (4–5 mg/g). High protein genotypes had higher amounts of essential amino acids. Sulphur amino acids showed negative correlation with protein content. The expression analysis of more than 125 genes (across all the traits) was validated using quantitative real time PCR analysis in mature seeds.