 Recruitment to these positions are made each year by the Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board (ASRB) in 61 disciplines through a nation-wide competitive examination followed by a personal interview. These 61 disciplines apart from agricultural sciences, animal sciences and fisheries sciences include Basic and Fundamental Sciences, Social Sciences, Home Science and Engineering. Though the maximum qualification is a Master's degree in the subject, many of those writing the entrance examination have already earned their doctoral degree. Scientific placements are classified into: Scientists, Scientists Selection Grade, Senior Scientists and Principal Scientists. Nearly 1,000 of them occupy management placements as Heads of Divisions, Project Coordinators, Project Directors, Directors of Institutes, Assistant Directors-General and Deputy Directors- General. Promotion from Scientistto the level of a Senior Scientist is through performance assessment of workdone and length of service in the previous grade. Subsequently, Principal Scientists and research management placements are filled through international advertizement and selection. Lateral entry into these positions is open to scientists from other organizations and the SAUs. ICAR enters into a large number of bilateral and collaborative arrangements with national and international institutions. Therefore, also while in service, there is ample opportunity for training, skill upgradation and active participation in research both within the country and abroad. Opportunities are also available for obtaining advance degrees as in-service candidates with study-leave benefits. TRAINING FOREIGN NATIONALS AT ICAR Third world countries, particularly those in the Afro-Asian region, view the Indian Agricultural Research System as a model. For them, the ICAR organizes training courses in nearly all disciplines at the related institution of the ICAR. Director DARE, ICAR Headquarters, is the nodal officer. Foreign nationals should either be directly sponsored by their governments or by the FAO, USAID, IDRC or international agencies. fas Kio bo LE = eats Atthe CPCRI, Kasaragod, aweek-long training is conducted onIntegrated At the CPRI, Shimla, the SAARC trainees are being exposed to Potato Nutrient Management for Palms (during October); Palm-based Farming Production Technology. A training is also conducted on Recent Advances Systems (during November) and Water Management of Palms (during in Detection and Management of Potato Virus December) CORPORATIZATION Indian Agriculture has grown step for step. Quantitative and qualitative improvements in produce have been backed up with year-round production and diversification. ICAR research has withstood the test of many economic, social and political objectives. ICAR is now prepared for corporatization in stages with a combination of commercial and non-commercial goals.