 This initiative showcases the effectiveness of organic farming practices in promoting rural economic growth and self-sufficiency. Keywords: Cash crop, Farmer empowerment, HPR-12 (Jwala), Organic, Rajma, Sustainable agriculture C ULTIVATION as well as the adoption of rajma as a cash crop in the organic state of Sikkim has tremendously improved the livelihood status of farmers, increasing the production and productivity of pulses in the different programs initiated by the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare in partnership with ICAR to accomplish the goal of self-sufficiency in pulses production (NFSM 2017-18). Under this program, as directed by ATARI-Zone VI, KVK Gyaba, with its mandate to conduct the CFLD program on pulses in the financial year 2016-17 decided to implement a location- specific cluster frontline demonstration program on selected rajma variety i.e., HPR-12 (Jwala) rust resistant variety. The average state yield of the rajma Jwala variety is 16.75 q/ha (Sikkim Agri. Dept.). It is, therefore, an On Farm Trial (OFT) of selected rajma variety was conducted on one of the progressive farmer’s fields viz; Shri Sonam Wangyal Bhutia of Sindrang, West Sikkim. He started the cultivation of rajma provided by KVK in a small area to earn more return in a short period. Inspired by its quick cash return, farmers of nearby villages also preferred to cultivate rajma instead of local cultivars. Challenges The challenges faced by the rajma farmers were sorted out through both scientists and farmers’ teamwork during the entire cultivation of rajma crop to its harvesting. The cost of cultivation was minimized by using harvested maize crop stalks to support the rajma crop providing a good aerial environment. Minimum tillage operations also helped soil microbial degradation in the rajma field. Other challenges like untimely rainfall and excess moisture in the field during sowing time, unavailability and unawareness of HYV, bio-fertilizer, damages of insects, pests, and diseases, and storage problems caused by store grain pests followed by marketing problems were also checked and benefited the entire rajma growers of the selected area. Initiative towards achievements With the training and handholding from Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Gyaba, farmers from selected villages made significant progress towards becoming a progressive farmer. 'Training on scientific cultivation practices and awareness program' was provided to 47 selected farmers participants from the selected village in August 2017. 'Demonstration on seed treatments' with PSB `200 g per 10 Kg of seed followed by sowing methods, spacing, and timely monitoring of the crop field was also demonstrated on their field which was very beneficial to them in terms of increase in production and profit return. Moreover, 'Field Day' was conducted by the concept of 'seeing in believing' in the field of Shri Sonam Wangyal Bhutia to attract other farmers who were interested in cultivating rajma as a cash crop.