 Sugarcane planted in the autumn season is most suited for intercropping since it grows more slowly due to the low temperatures in subtropical Indian Farming 73 (09): 15-17; September 2023 India from November to February, which is ideal time for short- duration winter (rabi) season crops that can grow successfully when planted between sugarcane inter- spaces. Numerous studies showed that the total productivity of the intercropping system taken with sugarcane and rabi crops was significantly higher than the total productivity of rabi crops alone. It is vital to increase system productivity in order to fulfil the rising demand for various crops, stop further loss in factor productivity and increase the viability of the sugarcane production system. In addition to extending the area under pulse crops, growing French beans with sugarcane lessens the intensity of weeds, gives households mid-season income for further purchase of inputs for sugarcane and creates more jobs. French beans, a short-duration, early-bulking non- traditional grain legume with high production potential in the winter (rabi) season in North India, can be intercropped with sugarcane in the autumn season to provide mid-season income for small and marginal cane growers. Sound package of practices must be made more widely known in order to maximize the benefits of sugarcane based cropping systems and to maintain their yield potential. Package of practices Field preparation: To improve contact between the setts of sugarcane and the soil, the soil must be finely ground, properly aerated, wet, and weed free. Soil turning ploughs should be used for the initial ploughing to allow at least 20 to 25 cm of soil to become loose. There should be 2 harrowing after it. Each harrowing should be followed by planking. Levelling must not be neglected when preparing the field for the sugarcane + French bean Indian Farming 16 September 2023 intercropping system. For effective water management and to prevent water stagnation, a field must be appropriately levelled. Field prepared for sugarcane planting is also good for French bean too. Sowing time: Optimum time for sowing of crops, autumn sugarcane and French bean in intercropping system is between mid-October to mid-November. Varieties: Sugarcane variety such as CoP 9301, CoLk 1546’, CoLk 16466, CoP 16437, CoP 09437, CoLk 12207, CoLk 12209, CoP 112 and CoSe 01434 are suited for the sub- tropical region. French bean varieties such as PDR. 14 (Uday), IIPR 96-4 (Ambar) and I.P.R. 98-5 (Utkarsha) are suitable for cultivation in sub- tropical region. Seed rate, seed treatment and spacing: For sugarcane + French bean intercropping system 50–60 quintals seed of sugarcane and 60–65 kg seed of French bean is required. The seed of French bean should be treated with carbendazim @2 g/kg seed. The sugarcane setts should also be soaked for 10 minutes with carbendazim solution 2 g/litre water, which will take care of soil and sett borne diseases.