 Soundness and examination of horse for soundness Unit 5 : Surgery of Head and Neck Region Etiology, diagnosis and surgical management of the affections of sinuses, horn, nasal and buccal cavity, teeth, tongue, salivary glands, larynx, pharynx, trachea and oesophagus. Surgical affections of eye lids, lacrimal apparatus, nictitating membrane, conjunctiva, cornea, sclera, chloroids, iris, retina, lens, optic nerve, aqueous and vitreous humours and other parts of eye and their management. Surgical affections and management of ear and guttural pouch. Unit 6 : Thoracic Surgery Various approaches for thoracic surgery in large and small animals. Physiological alterations following thoracotomy. Heart lung machine and its use in thoracic surgery. Different congenital and acquired surgical affections of thoracic wall and thoracic organs viz. lung, mediastinum, oesophagus, 75 heart and diaphragm in large and small animals. Surgical diseases of the vascular and lymphatic systems. Unit 7 : Abdominal and Pelvic Surgery Different surgical approaches for abdomen. Hernia: etiology, pathophysiology and treatment. Various acquired and congenital surgical affections of abdominal organs viz. Traumatic reticulitis, abdomasal displacement, impaction of omasum, pyloric stenosis, gastric torsion, caecal dilation, intestinal obstruction, rectal and anal prolapse, and peritonitis. Colic in horse:- etiology, diagnosis and treatment. Affection of liver, spleen, kidney and urinary bladder their complications and surgical management. Urolithiasis, uraemia and their management. Surgery of male and female genital organs. Etiology, diagnosis and surgical management of the affections of udder, teat and tail. 7.5 VETERINARY ANATOMY Unit 1: Comparative Osteology and Arthrology Structure, chemical composition and classification of bones, Bones of appendicular and axial skeleton of ox as a type and their comparison with those of horse, dog, pig and poultry, classification and detailed study of different joints of the body. Study of various indices for estimating race, sex and age of different animals. Basics of biomechanics of the locomotor system, Radiography of normal and developing bones. Unit 2: Comparative Splanchnology Descriptive anatomy of various organs of digestive system and associated glands, respiratory system and associated glands and urinary system and associated glands of ox and their comparison with those of horse, dog, pig and poultry. Study of formation of thoracic, abdominal and pelvic cavities and their reflection. Complete study of various organs and associated glands of male and female genital systems, surgical sites for various operations and clinically significant areas for performing auscultation, percussion and for carrying out surgical procedures such as laryngotomy, oesophagotomy, gastrotomy, rumenotomy, cystotomy, urethrotomy, caesarian section, exploratory laparotomy, mammectomy, thoracotomy, thoracocentesis, etc.