 For a medium size solar plant of about 10 MW, monthly estimated water requirement is 165,000 L [28]. Rising solar power will also demand for more water, further making more water stress in the region. The main motive behind solar energy is to bring sustainable, affordable and clean energy (SDG#7). Unexpectedly it is having a severe consequence on eradication of zero hunger (SGD#2) and providing clean water and sanitation (SDG#6). ‘Solar Energy-Agri­ culture-Water’ (SAW) nexus is at the core of the sustainable development of modern society. The nexus should be considered over individual sectors in development strategies of the countries [29]. The SAW nexus (Fig. 2) refers to the interconnected relationship between these three sectors, and how they can work together to address challenges related to sustainability, food security, and climate change. Solar energy can be harnessed in agriculture in many ways, such as using solar panels to power irrigation systems or to generate electricity for farm operations [30] and this can reduce the reliance on fossil fuels, increase energy efficiency, and reduce Fig. 1. Cumulative installed capacity of solar energy. H. Supe et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e23125 3 greenhouse gas emissions. Water is a crucial resource in agriculture, and solar energy can help to address water scarcity by powering desalination plants, pumping groundwater, or providing energy for irrigation systems [31]. In arid nations, particularly those located in desert regions, solar PV water pumping systems have the potential to mitigate the impacts of water scarcity, enhance crop yields, and alleviate the challenges posed by droughts during dry seasons [10]. Additionally, solar energy can be used to power sensors and other technologies that can help farmers manage their water resources more effectively [32]. In turn, agriculture can play a role in supporting the expansion of solar energy by providing land for solar farms or by integrating solar panels into their operations [33]. This can provide additional income streams for farmers, increase the resilience of the energy grid, and support the transition to renewable energy. Overall, the SAW nexus represents an opportunity to create more sustainable and resilient food and energy systems that benefit both people and the planet. On the negative side, if agricultural land is completely converted into solar farms, it could lead to a reduction in the area available for crop cultivation, thereby threatening food security [34]. This is particularly concerning in regions where arable land is already scarce. Inadequate infrastructure management, land utilization, the generation of waste, and the depletion of natural resources are all instances of environmental stressors that impact the nexus framework [35]. Moreover, solar panels can impact local water cycles.