 In agriculture sector government is applying a valuable plan for both men and women. Key words: Communication, agriculture, KVK, socioeconomie status, decision making, Gender INTRODUCTION Agriculture plays a vital role in Indian economy. Agriculture, along with fisheries and forestry, is one of the largest contributors to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Agriculture is an engine of growth has been recognized by the international development community and it's the main occupation of the poor human beings and poverty reduction in country. The main occupation is agriculture, because 70 per centof the population is involved in this occupation. Many women in developing countries are occupied in agriculture. Women occupation in agriculture in low income countries in Asia is between 60-80 per cent. In almost, Asian countries, the number of women employed in agriculture as a percentage of the economically active population is higher. Efforts by national governments and the international community to achieve their goals for agricultural development, economic growth and food security will be strengthened and accelerated if they build on the contributions that women make and take steps to alleviate these constraints. Over the years, there is a gradual realization of the key role of Women in agricultural development and their vital contribution in the field of agriculture, food security, agronomy, horticulture, processing nutrition, sericulture, fisheries, and other allied sectors. In the EU, agriculture is the seventh largest employer of women (3%). However, in Greece about 38% women (of all family workers in agriculture) are 34/ Women Empowerment d EConomic Development employed in agriculture. In Portugal, over 50% of the an. workforce is female. [EASHWI Throughout the South Asian region, women account for aboud the agricultural 39 percent of the agricultural workforce, working as managers of land to agricultural laborers. [IFPRI] male in The proportion of economically active remale to total femala Dopulation ranged from 15-81% within Southeast Asia; 49 -989% i South Asia. In other countries inAsia, 69% of the total female population was engaged in agriculture. However, in Cambodia, Lao PDR,Si Lanka, India, Bhutan, Nepal, Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan and China the number of women employed in agriculture as a percentage of the economically active population is higher than that of men. It is evident that those countries, which are low and medium achievers in human development and gender related development, have larger share of women in agriculture. Southeast countries such as Bangladesh, India, Pakistan and Nepal region are poor performers of human and gender development. High human development does not necessarily translate to an equal share of benefits of men and women.