 Gender Empowerment through Village Institutions: Role of ICAR Under the umbrella of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) there are many Institutes, SAUs and KVKs playing major role in empowerment of both the genders in agriculture and allied sectors. Research, extension and education are the three basic services provided by ICAR in which girl students and farm-women are also the major stakeholders. Programmes and projects are being undertaken for income enhancement, livelihood security and food and nutritional security of farm families with specific emphasis to farm-women. Women are considered as the backbone of Indian agriculture but much of their work goes unrecognized. They have remained as “invisible workers” contributing in the development of agriculture. Realizing the enormous needs to address the problems and gender issues in agriculture, India is pioneer in institutionalizing research on women in agriculture by establishing National Research Centre for Women in Agriculture (NRCWA) at Bhubaneswar, Odisha in 1996 upon recommendation of the Working Group on Agricultural Research and Education constituted Gender Empowerment through Village Institutions and Education 154 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR by the Planning Commission. This was subsequently promoted from NRCWA to Directorate and now as ICAR-Central Institute for Women in Agriculture (ICAR-CIWA) in the year 2014 with a vision to emerge as a principal centre for conducting gender research and women empowerment in agriculture to increase productivity and sustainability of agriculture. ICAR- CIWA is implementing various research projects with mandates to carry out Gender equitable agricultural policies/ programmes and gender-sensitive agricultural-sector responses. Since its inception, the Institute has been undertaken various research on several gender issues in agriculture and gender mainstreaming by increasing opportunities of women in agriculture. The Institute is globally one of its kinds and has demonstrated its leadership in the emerging area of research on women in agriculture. It is co-ordinate the AICRP on Home Science for gender mainstreaming and empowering women in agriculture at 13 centres in 12 states in the country. The researches have been carried out in five components such as Food & Nutrition, Family Resource Management, Human Development and Family Studies, Clothing and Textile, Home Science Extension Education. The main thrust of the project is to empower women in agriculture for their improved nutrition, livelihood security and drudgery reduction, occupational health hazards and capacity building of agrarian families. To take up the ergonomic issues and safety of women farmers in rural area, ICAR-CIWA is working as one of the centre of All India Coordinated Research Project on Ergonomics and Safety in Agriculture (AICRP on ESA) during the year 2017.