 Farmers weigh several determinants when selecting a marketing channel, including transportation costs, return rates, the channel’s ability to reach a wide target market, trustworthiness, and market familiarity (Magesa et al., 2014). Farmers sometimes opt for lower-priced channels due to limited market knowledge or due to challenges accessing more lucrative markets (Romero and Wollni, 2018). Recent evidence has found that the household head’s level of education and age play crucial roles: Older 1 Market price in this study indicates returns to producers of high-value vegetable and fruit crops. 2 In 2016, the state of Maharashtra produced 6.5 million tons of onion, 1.5 million tons of pomegranate, and 0.12 million tons of okra (GoI 2017). During 2016, Maharashtra accounted for 31% of India’s onion production, 64% of its pomegranate production, and 2% of its okra production. 3 Marketing outlets examined in Negi et al (2018) include local traders, government-regulated markets, input dealers, processing firms, and government agencies (such as the Food Corporation of India). 4 Some exceptions include Kopp and Mishra (2022), who examine crop perishability and market power, and Fafchamps and Minten (2012) and Mitra et al. (2018), who assess the role of information in the farm-gate prices of semi-perishable commodities. A.H. Villacis et al. Economic Analysis and Policy 81 (2024) 1308–1321 1310 farmers with higher levels of education are better negotiators than younger, less-educated farmers and tend to be risk-averse, influ­ encing their choice of marketing channels (Pham et al., 2019). This paper makes several additions to the existing literature and contributes further to our understanding of the welfare impli­ cations of farmers’ choice of marketing channels (Fafchamps and Hill, 2005; Mason, Jayne, and Myers, 2015; Hao et al., 2018; Negi et al., 2018). First, it investigates the marketing outlet choices of farmers who, unlike the wheat and paddy farmers in Negi et al. (2018), tend to be small (in landholding size and sales volume), face credit constraints, experience higher transaction costs, and often lack information on markets and prices. This paper further differs from previous studies by centering the analysis on the effects that government innovations have on marketing arrangements for high-value fruits and vegetables. Such commodities are highly seasonal and therefore exhibit high volatility in price. These characteristics represent a source of heterogeneity in the welfare implications of the choice of marketing channels. The analysis focuses on two crucial elements of the marketing arrangements of Indian fruit and vegetable farmers. First, we examine the factors associated with the choice of marketing channels. Unlike grain producers, most fruit and vegetable farmers use three prominent marketing outlets: Private traders, pre-harvest contracting firms, and Agricultural Produce Market Committee mandis.