 Since then, animals have been used as a source of food, draft-power, skin, games and recreation. Sheep and goat were the first domesticated animals in the Indian sub- continent. Cattle gained more importance during the Vedic period leading to initiation of professional cattle breeding. The science of animal Ayurveda was also documented in this era while the use of cow dung manure in the agricultural fields was first observed in the Iron Age. Later on, buffalo was recognized for dairying in the Mauryan period. Horses and elephants received special attention during this period as they were required in battle and transportation. Their importance can be observed from the fact that specific feeding schedule was followed for horses and there was a ban on killing the elephants for their tusks. Use of animals for food, religious purposes and transport continued in the pre-Mughal era dynasties. Literature of Mughal era shows that people by then were aware about the best animal breeds and feed management practices. They used oxen for traction and milk as an important ingredient of various cuisines. This period is also known for the science related to horse rearing and breeding. Horse breed improvement followed by scientific developments in the field of cattle rearing and management continued with the advent of colonial rule. Formal veterinary education, establishment of agricultural research institutes, setting up of processing plants and development of vaccines/treatments for various animal diseases can be counted as important achievements of the British era. 1. Introduction Animal rearing in India is centuries-old and there are sufficient evidences that suggest domestication of farm animals happened even before the beginning of the written history. “All these stages of man-animal relationship from the pre-historic time to early historic time are depicted in the art of the cave dwellers” (Mathpal 1984). Ancient Indian literature Vedas, Puranas, Brahmanas, epics, do mention about animal care and disease management. It is believed that man-animal relationship or domestication was initiated during Mohenjo- daro and Harappa period of Indus Valley Civilization. Domestication of animals started simultaneously at around 2500 BC in certain places of northern India. Excavations from the Bronze Age Civilization revealed animal husbandry practices including care and Indian Agriculture after Independence 42 management of various types of livestock species including bovines, small ruminants, elephants, poultry etc. Early Historic man confined animals particularly to use/misuse them during battles. Humped Cattle breeding was more depicted during the Rig Vedic period (1500–1000 BC). The cow was then called Kamdhenu, the one who fulfils all daily needs, deriving its meaning from- ‘Kamna’ meaning desire and ‘dhenu’ meaning fulfilment. It was during Vedic period that the love for cow started (Somvanshi, https:// www.vethelplineindia.co.