 A well distributed rainfall of 120-200 cm is considered ideal. Pepper grows well in wide range of soils with a pH between 4.5 and 6.0. Propagation technique Cuttings and dry seeds Planting and management With the receipt of first rains in May- June (S-W monsoon), primary stem cuttings of supporting trees like Erythrina sp., Ganuga sp., Grevillia sp., Alianthus sp. are planted at a spacing of 3 m × 3 m, which would accommodate about 1110 standards per hectare. For planting of pepper, 50 cm3 pits are taken at a distance of 30 cm away from supporting tree base, and planting is done soon after monsoon. As the cuttings grow, the shoots are tied to the standards; young vines should be protected from hot sun during summer by providing artificial shade. Lopping of standards has to be done regularly to provide optimum light and to enable the standard to grow straight. Manuring and fertilizer application Recommended nutrient dosages for black pepper are NPK 50: 50:150 grams/vine/year. 1/3rd dosage should be applied during 1st year, which is increased to 2/3rd during 2nd year. And full dose is given from 3rd year onwards. It’s recommended to apply fertilizer in two split doses, one in May-June and the other in August-September. Organic manures in the form of cattle manure or compost @10 kg/vine; neem cake @ 1 kg/vine can also be applied. Application of lime @ 0.5 kg/vine in April-May during alternate years is recommended. Foliar application of ZnSo4 @ 0.25% and soil application of MgSo4 @ 150 g/vine is recommended for soils deficient in Zn and Mg. Yield Dry pepper yield varies from 1240-2880 kg/ha/year in different genotypes Market price Average price is 48,786/ quintal Pests and diseases Some of the common pests of pepper are Pollu beetle (Longitarsus nigripennis), Top shoot borer (Cydia hemidoxa), Leaf gall thrips (Liothrips Karnyi). Diseases such as Foot rot (Phytophthora capsici), Pollu disease (Colletotrichum gloeosporioides), Spike shedding, Stunt disease, Phyllody disease and Slow decline, etc. affects pepper plant health.  

web link- https://icar.gov.