 Soil Nitrate Sensor Measure the concentration of nitrate ions in the soil, guiding fertilization practices These sensors provide real- time nitrate level readings, allowing farmers to adjust fertilizer applications precisely, minimize nutrient leaching and optimize crop yield. Humidity Sensor Monitor air humidity levels to prevent fungal diseases, optimize photosynthesis, and maintain favorable microclimates These sensors transmit humidity data, enabling farmers to regulate irrigation, ventilation, and heating systems for optimal crop health and yield. Dissolved Oxygen Sensor Measure the concentration of oxygen dissolved in water to maintain suitable Deployed in aquaculture ponds or tanks, these sensors transmit dissolved Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report The Wireless Sensor Networks (WSN) are widely used in agriculture monitoring to improve the quality and productivity of farming. Sensors are used to gather different types of data (i.e., humidity, carbon dioxide level, and temperature) in real-time scenarios. The Sensor Network consists of small, typically battery powered wireless devices. The data is collected at sensor and then relayed from sensor to the network. Further, data analytics is being used to create intelligence which enable farmers and agricultural stakeholders to gain valuable insights, make informed decisions, and optimize farming practices. Table 6: Sensors used in various agriculture applications Smartphone Sensor(s) Purpose Common Agriculture Usage Soil Moisture Sensor Measure the amount of moisture present in the soil Integrated into the soil at various depths, these sensors provide real-time data, enabling farmers to optimize water usage and prevent waterlogging or drought stress in crops. Soil Temperature Sensor Monitor the temperature of the soil to determine optimal planting times, seed germination conditions and microbial activity. Placed at different depths within the soil profile, these sensors transmit temperature data, helping farmers make informed decisions regarding crop selection, planting schedules, and pest management strategies based on _ temperature thresholds. Soil Nitrate Sensor Measure the concentration of nitrate ions in the soil, guiding fertilization practices These sensors provide real- time nitrate level readings, allowing farmers to adjust fertilizer applications precisely, minimize nutrient leaching and optimize crop and maintain favorable microclimates yield. Humidity Sensor Monitor air humidity levels | These sensors transmit to prevent fungal diseases, | humidity data, enabling optimize photosynthesis, | farmers to regulate irrigation, ventilation, and heating systems for optimal crop health and yield.