 Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim have a montane climate with cold, snowy winters and mild summers. In Northeast Region, part of Arunachal Pradesh and part of Nagaland fall under temperate zone; Assam, Meghalaya, part of Tripura, and part of Arunachal Pradesh fall under subtropical zone; while part of Tripura and Mizoram under coastal/tropical zone. Temperatures are moderate in the Brahmaputra and Barak valley river plains which decreases with altitude in the hilly areas. At the highest altitudes, there is permanent snow cover. In general, the region has 3 seasons: Winter, Summer, and rainy season in which the rainy season coincides with the summer months much like the rest of India. Winter is from early November until mid-March while summer is from mid- April to mid-October. According to the Köppen climate classification, the region is divided into i) Tropical climates, ii) Warm temperate mesothermal climates, and iii) Snow microthermal climates (Table 4). Temperatures vary by altitude with the warmest places being in the Brahmaputra and Barak River plains and the coldest at the highest altitudes. It is also influenced by proximity to the Table 4. Climatic conditions in Northeastern states in India Region Climate Remarks Manipur, Tripura, Mizoram, and the Cachar plains south Tropical wet and dry - Assam, Nagaland, northern parts of Meghalaya and Manipur and parts of Arunachal Pradesh Warm temperature mesothermal climates Mean temperatures in coldest months range from −3 to 18°C Brahmaputra valley Humid subtropical climate with hot summers Warm Eastern hills of Nagaland, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh warm summers 500 and 1,500 m (1,600 and 4,900 ft) Meghalaya, parts of Nagaland, and northern Arunachal Pradesh Short and cool summers Above 1,500 m (4,900 ft) Extreme northern parts of Arunachal Pradesh Cool climate Humid continental climates with mean winter temperatures below −3°C Indian Horticulture 32 sea with the valleys and western areas being close to the sea, which moderates temperatures. In the mountainous areas of Arunachal Pradesh, the Himalayan ranges in the northern border with India and China experience the lowest temperatures with heavy snow during winter and temperatures that drop below freezing. Areas with altitudes exceeding 2,000 m receive snowfall during winters and have cool summers. Below 2,000 m above sea level, winter temperatures reach up to 15 °C during the day with nights dropping to zero while summers are cool, with a mean maximum of 25 °C and a mean minimum of 15 °C. In the hilly areas of Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur and Mizoram, winters are cold while summers are cool. No part of Northeast India receives less than 1,000 mm of rainfall a year. Suitable areas for temperate fruit cultivation Areas suitable for temperate fruit growing in NE Region states are presented in Table 5.