 This practice is in use since 40 years by the farmers of Kuzhuman of Tiruchirapalli district in Tamil Nadu. Keywords: pandri, sembal, thandu, kilangu, blackquarter Shri Periyaswamy Mela kuzhumani, P.O. Kuzhuman, Tiruchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) 639 103 2496 Use of Albizzia lebbeck buds for treatment of foot finger rot in cattle Foot finger rot is a dangerous disease among cattle during rainy season. This disease is treated by making use of Albizzia lebbeck buds. In this treatment, the buds of Albizzia lebbeck are ground and mixed with small amount of water . This suspension is applied between the foot fingers to get relief. A majority of the villagers of Samloti of Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh are using Shri Rajeev Kumar Room no 32 D, NBH II Hostel, Himachal Pradesh University, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005  this treatment since time immemorial. Keywords: foot finger rot, Albizzia lebbeck bud, suspension 2648 Use of tortoise bone and butter to cure swelling and cut in the udder of cows and buffaloes Sometimes the udder of cows and buffaloes gets cut by nail due to mishandling, and the animals feel pain. For it, about 100 g bone of tortoise is powdered and mixed with 50 g butter to make a paste. This paste is smeared over the affected udder on the swelling and cutting part after each milking. It is continued up to 4-5 days to get complete recovery. It is practised in village Sonapur of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh since ages. Keywords: tortoise bones, butter, milking Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 2512 Use of chenthil (Tinospora cardifolia) leaves for treatment of mastitis Leaves of chenthil are made into paste and it is applied externally on the affected (swollen) udder. Farmers have been using these leaves since last 40 years. The paste is applied twice daily until full recovery. Keywords: chenthil leaves, mastitis Shri Paneer Selvan East off Street, Nagercoil (Tamil Nadu) 2501 Treatment of cattle suffering from basher disease by using Allium sp Basher disease is very common among the cattle. The animal suffering from this disease shows following symptoms: (i) swelling of earlobes (ii) swelling of the teats, and (iii) the cattle do not take fodder. There are different methods used for treatment of cattle for this disease as indicated below: (a) About 1-2 g Allium sp. (wild one) and black pepper are ground properly and mixed in 500-1000 g flour, which is fed to the cattle for 2-3 days. (b) Few grams of hing (Asafoetida) are mixed with appropriate amount of flour and fed to the cattle for 2-3 days. (c) The cattle is treated by feeding with hive comb of wasp. These practices are being used in Samloti village in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. Keywords: basher, swelling of earlobes, Allium sp.