 This is an age-old treatment and commonly used in Reddi village of Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh. Keywords: measles, nilkhunthi leaves, black pepper Shri Rajeev Kumar Room no 32 D, NBH II Hostel, Himachal Pradesh University, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2703 Use of ratbiche (golden shower) for curing dysentery Ratbiche (Cassia fistula) fruit is used for curing dysentery. When the fruits get mature and dry, the inside, which has two layers between seeds, becomes black and sticky. The upper layer is thicker than the lower layer. For the treatment of dysentery, about 3-4 pieces of this layer is dissolved in a little quantity of lukewarm water and taken orally. If the stool is mucous type, then the lower layer is used as in the same way as above. This is a very popular medicine used by Nepalese. Keywords: ratbiche fruit, cure of dysentery, upper layer, lower layer Shri Baburam Adhikari Medziphema, Dimapur (Nagaland) 2672 Use of Mirabilis sp. flower in treatment of piles problem The purpose of the practice is to solve the problem of piles in human beings. Piles is treated with salty soap made from Mirabilis sp. flower. The flower is fried in clarified butter and mixed with coriander, chillies, onion and salt (5-10 g each) and given orally to the patients. A majority of the farmers of village Patyar in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh are using this age-old practice. Keyboard: piles, Mirabilis sp, coriander, onion, chilli, salt Shri Rajeev Kumar Room no 32 D, NBH II Hostel, Himachal Pradesh University, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2677 Cure of cough by using peach leaves The Nishi tribe of Arunachal Pradesh use peach leaves for cough treatment. In this treatment, a few clean pieces of peach leaves are crushed between palms and it is taken orally as such. This cures cough in human being effectively. Keywords: cough, peach leaves Shri Techi Nega Nu SASRD, Medziphema, Dimapur (Nagaland) 2667 Use of teiseny-u leaves to ripen boil A shrub called teiseny-u or akashi is used ror ripening boil (abscess) in human being. Leaves are heated in flame and placed over affected area and kept overnight. This quickens ripening of boil. Shri Vithongunuo SES School, Medziphema (Nagaland)  Keywords: teiseny-u leaves, ripen boil 2682 Use of gatheru leaves to control high blood pressure Gatheru/ nonzawen/ remrem (Hottuynia cordata) is a shrub and a commonly available vegetative. The leaves are boiled and taken along with the soup. This controls high blood pressure. Keywords: gatheru leaves, high blood pressure Shri Vithongunuo SES School, Medziphema (Nagaland) 2680 Use of local vegetation for treatment of diarrhoea In Naya Talab, Hatai, which is the tribal area of Dungarpur district of Rajsthan, people have indigenous way for treatment of diarrhoea. Manji Nanoma used to help tribal people by providing local treatment.