 Indian Farming 9 October 2023 Dairy Cooperatives: Characteristics and status Dairy Cooperatives (DCs) play a significant role in connecting dairy producers to markets through strong backward and forward linkage. DCs serve as a prominent organization for improving nutritional and livelihood security, gender equality through women empowerment, socio-economic prosperity, and eradicating poverty in rural areas of the country. The three-tier model of DCs in India is depicted in the Fig. 1. The status of the total number of DCs across different country regions is presented in the Fig. 2. The expansion of DCs across the country is uneven due to the prevalence of dairy farming in a region. The Northern part has the maximum share of the total DCS, whereas the Eastern region has the minimum percentage. Dairy sector challenges and possible remedial strategies Despite the significant growth of the dairy industry, India still needs to overcome several challenges to achieve sustainable development, profitability, and quality standards. Significant challenges faced by the dairy sector are depicted in Fig. 3. There is a need for a sustainable development approach to overcome the difficulties and strengthen the entire dairy sector in the country. The combination of appropriate veterinary services (breeding and health care), scientific feed management, processing, and marketing of dairy products is crucial to get the potential benefits of dairy sector. Moreover, the government may play a significant role in creating and providing a favourable environment for small-scale DCs by coordinating and regulating institutions and organizations’ actions in the dairy sector. Strengthening the DCs will benefit producers and consumers by providing livelihood and milk products at affordable prices. Several researchers have reported that dairy farmers’ participation in DCs led to a significant increase in milk productivity and profitability through a decrease in Fig. 2b. Trend of dairy cooperatives in India from 1980-2022. North region 38% East region 18% West region 24% South region 20% Total provisional number of dairy cooperative societies was 2.28 lakh during 2021-22 0 15000 30000 45000 60000 75000 90000 1980-81 1990-91 2000-01 2010-11 2021-22 North region East region West region South rgion Fig. 2a. Status of total dairy cooperatives across regions in India. Fig. 3. Challenges faced by the dairy sector. Dairy sector challenges Small scale milk production Shortage of feed and fodder Inadequate basic facilities for transportation, processing and marketing Low milk productivity Unorganised and scattered markets Poor veterinary services Lack of remunerative pricing Lack of scientific management the cost of milk production and a reduction in the transaction costs of accessing markets, information, and technology. Despite these positive impacts of DCs, their milk production and marketing shares have remained modest. Currently, only 20% of the milk is handled by DCs.