 The suspension is filtered through cotton cloth and filtrate is applied as an insecticide along with irrigation water. Approximately 10 litres of this is required for 1 ha to control termites (Jaipur, Rajasthan). Srisuvalal (1996c) 9 Waste oil to control termite Bamboo strips are used to support tender saplings. Termite attack is common in sandy regions. First it is on bamboo strips and then on young saplings. The farm-attendants at Gram Bharati Gram Vidyapith in Amrapur, Mehsana district experimented with oil waste for controlling the termite menace. The attendants applied oil waste from oil wells of ONGC on the bamboo strips before using them as supports. Since then, there has been no termite attack in the kitchen garden (Mehsana, Gujarat). Patel (1998b) 49 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 10 Control of termite by attracting them to empty maize cobs and use of kerosene Make small holes of about one cm diameter all around in the earthen pot. Empty maize cobs (sitto) are kept inside. It is covered with narrow necked earthen pot (surai). Several such pots are kept at various places in soil at the depth of about one metre and covered with soil carefully. Termites love empty maize cobs and hence get lured to pot. After 3–4 weeks colonies are found in the pot. These pots are removed carefully and destroyed. Some farmers make small deep pits in the field at various places in summer and add cattle-dung in them. Then also the termites get drawn to the pits. After a few days, spray kerosene over them and destroy termites (Jaipur, Rajasthan). Sharma (1996b) 11 Termite control by using kerosene with irrigation water Farmers use 2.5 litres per acre of kerosene oil at the time of irrigation (Gonda, Uttar Pradesh). Anonymous (2000c) 12 Preventing termite attack in dry fodder storage by use of salt and ash In North Gujarat, farmers arrange bundles of pearl millet and sorghum straws in a beautiful shape on the ground. This structure is locally shape on the ground. This structure is locally called as 'aangali'. It has very steep roof so rain- water runs off quickly and does not stay long enough to penetrate into it. Sometimes the top is also covered with husks of pearl millet or wheat as an added means of preventing the percolation of rain water into aangali. Besides damage from rain, there is problem of fodder damaging termite. To check termite infestation, ash and salt are mixed and layered on the storage site before fodder is arranged in different layers on it. Sometimes salt is dusted between layers of stored fodder in the stock (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Koradiya and Koradiya (1994) 13 Control of termite by use of tobacco wastes Farmers collect residue of tobacco after harvesting. This waste material is incorporated into soil to control termite (Surendranagar, Gujarat).