 Further, he said that greater productivity and profitability can be achieved by improved resource management, diversification and good breeding approaches. The Hon’ble President spoke of the rich dividends obtained due to science led growth which has been in the forefront of agricultural research and extension and was of the opinion that the agricultural universities have to play an important role in imparting quality education to students, making them professionally competent and socially sensitive. To harmonize agricultural education with excellence in science and technology, he urged the universities to undertake initiatives aimed at faculty and institution development, and reforms in governance and curriculum and appreciated that ICAR has initiated the National Agricultural Education Project to improve and sustain the quality of higher agricultural education. The innovative student programmes such as READY, which stands for Rural Entrepreneurship and Awareness Development Yojana; ASPIRE, or Agriculture Science Pursuit for Inspired Research Excellence were also appreciated by him. He conferred the coveted Best Performance Award for attaining maximum number of students qualifying for JRFs in 2013-14 to Govind Bhallabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar (Ist Prize), and Dr. PDKV, Akola and UAS, Bangalore as joint winners of II prize and SKUAST-Kashmir was conferred III Prize. The inaugural function ended with the vote of thanks from Addl. Secy. DARE & Secy. ICAR. Interface of Vice Chancellors’ with Farmers (5.00 PM -7.00 PM) The meeting was chaired by Hon’ble Union Minister of Agriculture and Food Processing Industries, Shri Sharad Pawar. The Secy. DARE & DG, ICAR, welcomed the dignitaries on the dias, Hon’ble Shri Sharad Pawar, Union Minister of Agriculture and Food Processing Industries; Smt. Supriya Sule, MP; Shri B. R. Barwale, Chairman, MAHYCO, Shri B. H. Jain, Founder and Chairman, Jain Irrigation Systems Ltd., Shri V. S. Borade, Trustee, Marathwada Sheti Sahayya, 26 Mandal, Aurangabad, Shri Arvind Kaushal, Addl. Secretary, DARE & Secretary, ICAR , Dr Arvind Kumar, DDG (Edn) and Dr. K. D. Kokate, DDG (Agril. Extn). He drew special attention to the challenges in vulnerable ecologies and highlighted the achievements of ICAR for freedom from hunger and malnutrition. He informed that consistent efforts of the Scientists, researchers and farmers have resulted in surplus of food-grains in the country, paving the way for food security and self sufficiency. He also informed about the various new initiatives of the Council including National Agriculture Education Project. The Hon’ble Minister of Agriculture and Food Processing Industries, Shri Sharad Pawar emphasized the urgent need to address the issues concerning rain-fed agriculture, which account for over 56% of the total crop area, and over 77% pulses and 66% oil seeds are cultivated in these areas with having potential of animal husbandry.