 Soil and Water Productivity The special thrust was given on micro level agricultural land-use planning, soil and water conservation, water- harvesting storage and groundwater recharge, improving water-productivity and nutrient use efficiencies, integrated nutrient management, resource conservation technologies, chemical-free agriculture, integrated farming system including agroforestry, waste- water utilization, dryland, hill and coastal agriculture, weed management, precision agriculture, climate- resilient agriculture and abiotic-stress management across the states/UTs of India. Land-resource inventory of Bundelkhand region: Agricultural land-use planning, based on the soil characteristics, climate, water availability/irrigation facilities and socio-economic imperatives is essential to utilize the full potential of land and water resources choosing the right crop/cropping system suitable for the region. The ICAR-NBSS&LUP, Nagpur had developed land-resource inventory (1:10,000 scale) for Bundelkhand for sustainable land use. Hyperspectral characterization of soils and development of soil spectral library: A new initiative was taken to build a digital/spectral signature library of the soils of India for quick and inexpensive acquisition of surface soil properties. Reflectance spectra of 3,186 soil samples collected from Project on Climate Resilient Agriculture (PoCRA) districts and Vidarbha region of Maharashtra; Morena, Datia, Sagar and Damuah districts of Madhya Pradesh, and Surat, Valsad, Bharuch and Kachchh districts of Gujarat was studied. Predictive modeling of different soil properties (analysed by wet chemistry) was carried out with the help of spectral signatures. The measured values of soil properties (pH, EC, soil-organic carbon, sand and clay content, CaCO3 content) correlated well with the predicted values. Potential crop planning zones of Telangana: Delineation of potential crop zones can enhance understanding of specified land use objectives in terms of suitable soil and climatic features to obtain maximum productivity and profitability by conserving natural resources. This will facilitate better identification of promising crops and cropping systems, implementation or introduction of new technologies or schemes for the specified crop, replacing the uneconomical crop in the identified areas, and using natural resources to the maximum extent possible. For identification of potential areas for a particular crop, soil suitability assessment for different crops including horticultural crops was worked out in the first stage by considering available soils (1:250,000 scale) and climate information. In the second stage, the relative spread index (RSI) and relative yield index (RYI) was calculated and linked with the suitability class of a crop. A district was assigned a potentiality class based on soil suitability, RSI and RYI.