 2016) and e-pest surveillance in vegetables in Haryana are few successful examples for digital surveillance and delivery of the pest management advisories to farmers that resulted in prevention of pest outbreaks. Hyper spectral remote sensing has been used to develop spectral signatures for rice BPH to discriminating damaged crop from undamaged crop (Prasannakumar et al. 2013). 3.3.2. Pest forewarning The weather based ‘pest alerts’ offer better preparedness for pest management. Weather based early warning systems are in place for desert locust, potato and grape pests. Rule- based robust tools for location specific forewarning of rice insect pests, Spodoptera litura for groundnut and early blight of tomato (Pest predict-RBS) and empirical models (Pest predict-EMS) for rice, pigeon pea, groundnut and tomato insects and diseases are available as mobile Apps. Climatic variability in terms of monsoon rainfall influence rice BPH population and more than 30 rainy days during June to September months resulted in the pest outbreaks with >75% probability (Chander and Husain 2018). Likewise, pest- weather models in combination with historical weather and with the help of GIS have been used for delineation of pest hotspots for rice BPH through agro-ecological pest zoning, thereby facilitating strategic pest management planning (Yadav et al. 2010). InfoCrop, a generic crop growth simulation model for tropical environments has been developed and coupled with different pest damage mechanisms. The mechanistic pest population simulation models based on thermal constant concept, and biotic and abiotic mortality factors were developed for rice pests (Reji and Chander 2008). Further, these models were coupled to the InfoCrop model and the coupled model could be used to analyse impact of Indian Agriculture after Independence 216 climate change on pest dynamics as well as crop-pest interactions (Selvaraj and Chander 2015). 3.4. Development of pest management techniques 3.4.1. Host plant resistance One of the fundamental pillars of pest management is host plant resistance (HPR). The germplasm has been screened and exploited for development of varieties and hybrids in different crops. Commercialization of Bt transgenic hybrids since 2002 followed by Bollgard-II double gene technology in 2006 has been a standalone HPR attempt against bollworms of cotton and it brought down insecticide usage by 69%. Some of the important resistant cultivars include, CoSe 01421 (Imarti) of sugarcane in North Central Zone against red rot, shoot borer, top borer and stalk borer; JS 93-05 of soybean tolerant to insect pests and drought in Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Karnataka, and cashew variety, Bhaskara, less prone to the attack of tea mosquito bug in coastal Karnataka. 3.4.2. Cultural and mechanical tactics Companion crops-based management of insects-pests has been a time-tested practice in India.