 The training program focused on vegetable production technologies while imparting knowledge on overall crop Success Story Mushroom spawn production entrepreneur Through support from ICAR AICRP-Mushroom project, ICAR-CIARI, Port Blair has been imparting trainings on mushroom spawn production to the interested progressive farmers for mushroom spawn production to meet out the growing demand of mushroom spawn all over the islands. Mr Sainath Shenoy and Dr Nitu Sindhu started mushroom cultivation after getting training from ICAR- CIARI, Port Blair. Initially, they started cultivation of oyster mushroom in small business mode. However by seeing huge demand of mushrooms in the islands, Dr Nitu Sindhu wished to initiate spawn production at her own unit and got practical training. She also received financial support of ` 4.5 lakh from Department of Agriculture through HVADA (High Value Agriculture Development Agency) scheme. At present she is able to supply mushroom spawn to nearly 20 farmers of the islands of which 10 farmers are regular mushroom growers. She further informed, through this venture, she could earn ` 35,000–40,000/month. Organization of maize field day at village Bhanota RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 140 production technologies for hills. To promote oil palm cultivation in North Eastern Hill regions, a total of three trainings on oil palm production technologies; two in Arunachal Pradesh and one in Mizoram, benefiting 150 farmers were organized. Demonstrations on application of Arbuscular Mycorrhizal fungi in oil palm seed gardens and harvesting of oil palm bunches from tall palms benefiting 120 farmers of Mizoram were conducted and harvesting poles attached with sickle were distributed to 90 oil palm growers. Training program on Micro Irrigation Technician: ICAR-VPKAS organized a one-month training program Micro Irrigation Technician for farmers/students. The main aim of the training was to create awareness about water resource and identify/familiarize candidates with components of micro-irrigation system, equipments, design, layout, installation of micro-irrigation system at field level, care and maintenance. The training also focused on water management demonstration and hands on activities. Training program on Mushroom Growers: A 25 days training program, Mushroom Growers for farmers/ students was organized at ICAR-VPKAS. The program was aimed to impart knowledge about different mushroom cultivation technologies. In this training, a total of 20 participants (16 male and 04 females) from Almora and Nainital districts participated. Women farmers of Soliga tribe of BR Hills, Karnataka were trained in mushroom cultivation and utilization. They were also provided Ready to fruit (RTF) bags to grow mushroom in kitchen garden. Multi-fuel boiler and sterilization unit and a chaff cutter were provided to the tribal farmers to initiate spawn production.