 For regulating the import of aquatic animals, two documents, namely ‘National Strategic Plan on Aquatic Exotics and Quarantine’ and ‘Aquatic Exotic and Quarantine Guidelines’ have been prepared, which have been approved by the Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. The National Strategic Plan provides a framework to regulate the introduction of exotic aquatic animals and translocation of species within the country to prevent the ecological and disease risks associated with the movement of live aquatic animals and their products. The ‘Aquatic Exotics and Quarantine Guidelines’ include the criteria and procedures for finalizing potential, details of prohibited aquatic animal species, evaluation of introduction proposals, management of exotics already present in the country, quarantine, surveillance, reporting and networking of diagnostic laboratories. 2.2.9. Aquaculture environment management The research contributions on soil and water quality management in different aquaculture sectors by ICAR institutes over these years have been quite significant. Extensive studies on the water and soil quality parameters relating to fish production in freshwater fish ponds were undertaken as early as the 1960s (Banerjea 1967) suggesting optimal nitrogen, phosphorus and organic carbon requirement for higher productivity. Nutrient budgeting (C, N and P), productivity and water budgeting for diversified aquaculture practices has been assessed. The application of Azolla as a biofertilizer could replace chemical fertilizer. Studies deciphering the contribution of trace minerals Zn, Mg, Co towards fertilization boosting productivity by ICAR-CIFA and the role of Ca, Mg, K for shrimp and fish in low salinity by ICAR-CIBA are quite significant. Similarly, the role of alkalinity and hardness in breeding, hatching and production system has been established. ICAR institutes like CIFA, CIBA and CIFRI have substantially contributed to carbon footprint and carbon sequestration for fresh and brackishwater and wetland aquaculture systems to understand the impact of climate change and develop climate-resilient aquaculture practices. ICAR-CIBA has conducted many environmental monitoring programmes (EMP), and environmental impact assessment (EIA) studies to support sectoral growth. ICAR-CIBA had also generated a database on the use of chemicals, antibiotics and prepared guidelines for Effluent Treatment Ponds (ETP) for farming and hatcheries. A geographic information system-based multi-criteria decision support system was developed by ICAR-CIBA and ICAR-CIFRI to identify the suitable potential sites incorporating land, soil, and water resource characteristics with mandatory requirements specified under Coastal Aquaculture Authority or other Acts.