 Release of L 4717 lentil variety (Pusa Ageti Masoor) by IARI using both parents from ICARDA. It is an early maturing variety with moderately resistance to wilt and yield potential of ca.1700 kg/ha. Mapped rice-fallows of two districts of West Bengal and one district of Odisha. 27 scientists took part in training and scientific visits organized by ICARDA Out-scaling of improved lentil and grasspea technologies in rice-fallows in Chhattisgarh, Odisha, West Bengal, Tripura, Assam, Manipur, Meghalayaand Bihar under NFSM, OCPF, HarvestPlus and IFAD projects. Tall and erect Kabuli chickpea landrace supplied by ICARDA has been selected at IIPR Extra-early segregants developed using ICARDA germplasm at IARI A chickpea accession from Latvia is resistant to all races of Fusarium wilt ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 20 2.iii. Socio-economic impact/outcome To assess the technological impact and problems at farmers end for improving and further scaling-up of technologies, social scientists are working with multidisciplinary team of ICARDA scientists along with national partners in India. Jointly with Indian partners, promotion of lentil improved varieties and technologies has helped farmers to get increased yield of 39% in Assam, 36% in West Bengal, 53% in Bihar and 57% in Uttar Pradesh over farmers yield. Location specific technologies such as zero-tillage (ZT) gave 37-42% higher yields (up to 1.7 t/ha) and relay cropping gave 51-60% higher yields (up to 1.44 t/ha). In Rajasthan, demonstrations of improved production technologies of chickpea and barley gave yield advantage of 33 and 22%, respectively over local. CSJK 6 was better variety with low technology index and higher yield in chickpea and RD 2786 in barley gave higher net retunes (43%), higher benefit cost ratio (14%) and economic efficiency (55%) over other varieties. Adoption of silvi-pasture on private land using ADOPT software revealed that it will take at least 19.3 years (14.3 years by scientists) in targeted villages for peak adoption. Predicted adoption level in 5 years from start will be 27.6% (48% by scientist’s) and 78.4% (91.8% by scientists) in 10 years from start. Overall, the major outcomes of collaborative research include: selection of accessions with desirable traits/genes/alleles (which were non-existence in Indian germplasm) and their use in genetic enhancement programs. Development of farmers-preferred varieties with higher and stable yields of lentil, Kabuli chickpea and barley. Spine-less cactus as an alternative animal fodder has a great impact to reduce feed shortage in India. Development of a model for improving water productivity in IGCC area in Bikaner is a notable outcome in scarce water research. 3. Projects/activities in progress in India The following projects are operating in India with support from national and international donors.