 Keeping in view the importance of millets, the year 2023 has been declared as the International Year of Millets (IYM) by FAO to spread awareness on millets, their cultivation practices and explore their vast potentiality. Climatic condition of India is very much suitable for production of millets, including the state of Mizoram. However, the cultivation of millets in Mizoram has been declining at present. Hence, to improve the millet productivity in the state, germplasm screening in terms of yield, quality, biotic and abiotic stresses need to be taken up along with identifying best-performing genotypes for mass cultivation. Moreover, Mizoram soils have huge potential to capture national and international markets through large-scale cultivation of organic millets. Keywords: Jhum, Millets, Mizoram, Nutri-cereals Indian Farming 73 (05): 25-27; May 2023 M ILLETS, one of the earliest cultivated food crops, are a variety of small-seeded grains belonging to Poaceae family. They are native to many parts of the world but at present, are most commonly grown in dry climates of arid and semiarid tropics of India and African countries. India is the largest producer of millets worldwide with a value of 13.21 million tonnes followed by China with 2.7 million tonnes. India mainly produces Sorghum/Great Millet/Jowar (Sorghum bicolor), Pearl millet/Bajra (Pennisetum glaucum), Finger millet/Ragi (Eleusine coracana) and small millets such as Foxtail millet/Kangani/Kakun (Setaria italica), Little millet/Kutki (Panicum sumatrense), Kodo millet (Paspalum scrobiculatum), Proso millet/Cheena (Panicum miliaceum) and Barnyard millet/Sawa/Sanwa/Jhangora (Echinochloa esculenta). Additionally, the Central government in 2018, through the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare has included pseudo millets, viz. Buckwheat/ Kuttu (Fagopyrum esculentum) and Amaranthus/Chaulai (Amaranthus viridis) along with the above- mentioned millets among nutri- cereals for production, consumption and trade. Nutri-cereals Millets are nutritionally superior to other cereals as they contain higher levels of essential amino acids, vitamins, dietary fibre, phytochemicals and minerals such as iron, magnesium, calcium, zinc, phosphorous and potassium. They were previously known as coarse cereals and have now been rebranded as nutri-cereals to eradicate the notion that millets are inferior to cereals. Millets are acclaimed not only for their nutrient content but their tolerance to extreme weather conditions and drought resistance. They also display higher resistance to pests and diseases as compared to major cereals. Millets are grown worldwide and also offer a wide range of processed products depending on culture and region such as beverages, puffs, pastas, flakes, soups, flour, bread, poha, porridges, snacks, pulau, etc. Table 1.