 Changes have also been suggested in the model qualifications and the eligibility criteria for selection to the posts of Heads of the Divisions/Regional Stations, Project Coordinators/Joint Directors of Institutes other than Deemed Universities, Assistant Director Generals (ADGs), Directors, ZPDs and Joint Directors of Deemed Universities and also Deputy Director Generals (DDGs)/National Directors (NDs) and Directors of Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Central Institute of Fisheries Education (CIFE) and National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM). 9. Improvements in the Score Card for direct selection to various scientific positions have been suggested in order to bring in more objectivity and transparency and to overcome existing concerns and discrepancies. 10. Major suggestions for changes in the selection process of DDG level positions have been recommended. The proposed changed for selection at two levels is proposed for inclusiveness and transparency for better acceptance and perfection. 11. The Committee has also suggested changes in promotion policy in line with the new UGC guidelines and qualifications for direct recruitment with introduction of incentives and regular absorption for staff through lateral entry at higher levels/Research Management positions. 12. For an overall improvement in the system, various management reforms in major areas such as: Human Resource Development (HRD) through active involvement of NAARM, Management Leadership Development, Review of Cadre Strength of Scientists in time bound manner, Harmonization of disciplines between SAUs, transparency in the assessment system for accountability, promotion and transfer policy, lateral movement through sabbatical leave provisions, initiation of ICAR post-doctoral fellowship, competitive research grant system etc., have been suggested. ………. 1 1. PREFACE The Indian Council of Agricultural Research is an apex body for undertaking, planning, coordination and management of agricultural research and education in the country. It serves as a national coordinating agency in the area of agricultural research and education. It has a vast network of Research Institutes, National Research Centers, National Bureaus, Project Directorates, Zonal Project Directorates spread all over the country. In addition, the ICAR is also entrusted with the responsibility of fostering and supporting the growth and development of State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) forming part of the National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Since the ICAR has a national mandate to serve the cause of agricultural research and education, it occupies a unique position amongst the major scientific organizations in the country. The ICAR being a premier scientific organization, the Scientists in the ICAR have a major role to play in fulfillment of objectives of the organization.