 These isolates maintained the antagonistic property at higher temperatures, although CJMR180 and CJMR193 were more sensitive than the others. At elevated temperatures up to 35oC, CJMR191 maintained its pathogen inhibition efficiency. Moderately effective isolates, viz. CJMR180 and CJMR193, possess some special characteristics, such as plant growth promotion. The compatibility of the selected isolates was maintained under variable temperatures; hence, they are suitable for consortium development. The effect of Trichoderma on M. phaseolina mycelia indicated that the bioagents caused de-melanisation, breakage at the cross wall, and disintegration of the pathogen’s mycelia. CICR Cotpest Guard-2 CICR Cotpest Guard-1 CICR Green Guard-1 Growth inhibition of M. phaseolina, Rhizoctonia sp. and Sclerotium sp. by Trichoderma isolates in vitro at varying temperatures Broken and disintegrated mycelia of M. phaseolina due to interaction with Trichoderma isolates Integrated management of yellow mite of jute: The integrated effect of the moderate mite-tolerant jute variety (JRO 204) along with preventive soil sulphur nutrition and foliar sprays of acaricide was evaluated under farmers’ field conditions at Beraberia (2 locations) and Mallikapur, North 24 Parganas. The role of soil- applied sulphur @ 45 kg/ha at the time of sowing and foliar application of fenpyroximate 5EC @ 1.5 ml/l (45 ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 71 CROP MANAGEMENT and 55 DAS) individually and in combination could significantly suppress the population of yellow mite under farmers’ field conditions, indicating a significant role for these components in regulating the mite population. Sulphur alone was also effective, reducing mite infestation by 50% compared to the untreated control. The pest management components, comprising soil sulphur and acaricide application, exhibited superior performance on yield. Among the three villages, the highest yield of 37.70 q/ha was obtained with this treatment at Beraberia II village. In this village, the yields in the control plot was 32.80 q/ha. Risk assessment through modeling of major pests and diseases of jute: Different models were fitted to obtain the development rate r (T) of different immature stages (egg, larva, and pupa) of the indigo caterpillar, a polyphagous pest of jute. The Sharpe and DeMichele models were used for estimating the nonlinearity of egg development. The Logan model was used to estimate the nonlinearity in larvae development rate, and a modified version of the Janish-1 model was used to describe the effect of temperature on pupae development rate. A GIS map of the generation index (GI) and establishment risk index (ERI) of the indigo caterpillar under different climate change scenarios, viz. RCP 2.6, RCP 4.8, RCP 6.0, and RCP 8.5, was developed for the periods 2021–40 and 2061–80.