 Base populations involving four parents were Mass scale seed production of the peninsular carp Hypselobarbus pulchellus and Barbodes carnaticus through Recirculatory Hatchery System (RHS): Standardization of water quality parameters such as alkalinity, dissolved oxygen and ammonia was performed. Designing and fabrication of the Recirculatory Hatchery System (RHS) in RRC of CIFA (Bengaluru) fish farm has been accomplished. Evaluation of water resources for suitability of eggs to hatch and survival of larvae, the analysis of important water quality parameters from different water sources such as borewell, commercial RO waters and their combinations for determining suitability for the hatching and development of eggs of peninsular carps has been achieved. The 90% RO and 10% borewell water resulted in the desired alkalinity 36.75 equivalent to rain water with survival rate of 76.4% similar to rain water (73.18%). Training of state fishery officials and farmers in seed production of the Peninsular carp Hypselobarbus pulchellus and Barbodes carnaticus and dissemination of the technology was also undertaken DNA fingerprinting: DNA finger printing of the medicinal rice ‘Njavara’ by Simple Sequence Repeat (SSR) marker analysis was carried out. Three primers (RM 340, RM 274 and RM 10346) yielded polymorphic bands unique to Njavara types. In silico and in vitro anticancer screening of selective phytocompounds as inhibitor of matrix metalloproteases: Berberine is more cytotxic to MDA HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 135 Information technology, digitization and library strengthening Krishikosh is a digital repository (https://krishikosh. egranth.ac.in/) of valuable documents in the field of agriculture and allied sciences. Currently this digital repository (https://krishikosh.egranth.ac.in/) has 50 million digitised pages in more than ₹ 3 lakh digital items (volumes) like old books, old journals, reports, proceedings, reprint, research highlights, training manuals, historical records, which includes more than ₹ 1,90,000 theses digitized from various NARES Institutes/SAUs. During the year developed a tool for important keywords extraction along with its frequency in different years from the metadata of thesis titles available in Krishikosh repository (www. krishikosh.egranth.ac.in). Month wise theses uploded RM 340 RM 274 RM 10346 BN - BLACK NJAVARA WN - WHITE NJAVARA KN - KARANJAVARA MR - MANURATNA HS - HARSHA SY - SAMYUKTHA AS - AISWARYA UM - UMA KC - KANCHANA PO - POURNAMI K - AKSHAYA JY - JYOTHI SU - SUPRIYA C - NEGATIVE CONTROL L – 100 bp LADDER MB 231 breast cancer cells in comparison to normal vero cells, induced apoptosis, inhibited cell migration and cell invasion thus suppressing metastasis of TNBC cells through inhibition of mRNA expression of MMP1, MMP7, MMP9 and MMP11 and by decreasing the activity of all MMPs. Anticancer and anrimetastatic activity are in order; Curcumin>Apigenin> Berberine> Ursolic acid.