 September–October 2023 7 Kalmegh (Andrographis paniculata (Burm.f.) Nees) Vallabh Kalmegh-1: Gives herbage yield of 45-50 q/ha (10% more than check) with Andrographolide content of 92 kg/ha (24% more than check). Suitable for growing in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Kerala and West Bengal. y The ICAR-DMAPR has established a Medicinal Plant Botanical Garden in 21 ha which maintains 110 tree species, 64 shrub species, 350 herb species and 50 climber species of different Medicinal and Aromatic plants collected from various parts of India. y ICAR-DMAPR developed a website (http://www. herbalgardenindia.org) which serves as an advisory website for the end users to get the information on different Medicinal and Aromatic Plant species. A total of 750 records of herb species, 350 records of tree species, 275 records of shrub species and 125 records of climber species are uploaded in the database. y DUS descriptors in Kalmegh (Andrographis paniculata) and Isabgol (Plantago ovata) have been developed and notified by PPVFRA, New Delhi. y Directorate has filed 14 patents on different aspect of methods and products of Medicinal plants and one got approved. y ICAR-DMAPR has developed Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) in 31 medicinal crops for higher productivity. y A good agricultural and collection practices (GACP) training toolkit for medicinal plants have been developed in collaboration with Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). y Technology on production of biochar from distillation waste of aromatic plants has been developed. y Technology for preparation of enriched compost from Isabgol straw and low-graded rock phosphate has been developed. y A modified Quick, Easy, Cheap, Effective, Rugged and Safe (QuEChERS) GC-MS based method was standardized for the detection of 11 multi-class pesticides in Ashwagandha, Isabgol, Senna and Kalmegh. y Process for preparation of withanolide enriched extracts from roots of Ashwagandha was standardized. y Innovative technology for removing coloured impurities from water by utilizing aromatic plant waste has been developed. Mandukaparni (Centela aciatica) Vallabh Medha: It is bigger in size in respect to all the morphological characters and leaf area is more than 4.5 times higher than the local cultivar. Fresh herbage and dry herbage yields harvested are 12331 and 2113 kg/ha, respectively as compared to 2050 and 392 kg/ha in local variety. Active ingredients (asiaticoside, madecassic acid and asiatic acid) are also present in higher quantity. Other Achievements y Developed 42 varieties of medicinal crops and 8 varieties of aromatic crops. Directorate has also introduced many exotic species of MAP for cultivation. y Field gene bank of ICAR-DMAPR, Anand maintains 2313 accessions of 15 important MAP species and 5060 accessions of 54 medicinal and aromatic plants (including betelvine) at different AICRP-MAPB centers (26).