 Such bio-security cells of SAUs may further enlarge HRD and training activities to all concerned officials of various identified departments of the respective states. ICAR could offer core competence in developing curricula and training modules in this regards. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 8.2: Spurious and low quality formulations of biological control agents ADG (PP) presented that the spurious and low quality formulations of biological control agents including microbial formulations as well as biopesticides containing neem-based (azadiractin) formulations are perceived threats for poor pest suppression in crops over seasons. In addition, presence of various chemical toxicants, being present in sub-lethal levels, is found, in recent times, to be a perceived threat for sub-normal pest control. SAUs may develop suitable capacity including manpower and infrastructure so as to advice respective states in serving 23 and developing data-base on such types of marketed formulations so as to enable suitable administrative steps by respective states to weed out such formulations, being marketed even in remote and inaccessible villages. The State Pesticide Testing Labs (SPTL) could be supported by SAU for capacity building. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 8.3: Undertaking quality evaluation of other agricultural inputs such as fertilizers, seeds, hormones, vaccines etc. ADG (PP) emphasized upon joint reconnaissance programme under respective government schemes (RKVY/NFSM) as district plans could go a long way to help farmers’ access quality inputs for successful plant stand and crop growth. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 8.4: Package of practices (POP) of the SAUs ADG (PP) mentioned that Package of Practices (POP) of the SAUs are based on the ZREC meetings’ deliberations with stakeholders of the state. However, it is desired that (i) ICAR institutes, including crop PCs, be kept as part of the decision making process either/or through circulation of agenda material and through meetings; (ii) the label claims, as depicted in the website, are respected while developing POPs; and (iii) in case, there is a perceived need to still recommend a given pesticide formulation for managing any biotic stress of a given crop species, suitable steps to expand the label claim, with the desired data sets may be submitted to Registration Committee of the Central Insecticide Board to seek such label expansion. [Action: All VCs/All Directors] Agenda 8.5: Special Allowance for Managerial Positions IARI, New Delhi presented that-  The UGC pay package provides for special allowance of Rs.5,000/- to Vice- Chancellors, Rs.4,000/- to Pro-Vice-Chancellors/Deans, Rs.3,000/- to Associate Deans/Directors/Principals of PG Colleges, Rs.2,000/- for Principals of UG Colleges. It would be appropriate that these allowances are uniformly applied in all SAUs and DUs.  Implementation of the grade pay of Rs.12,000/- to Sr. Professor/Sr. Principal Scientist on the lines of UGC pay package.