 The temperature inside greenhouse is moderated by rolling up or rolling down the polythene sheets over side ventilators/ screens. However during summers when temperature inside polyhouse goes beyond 35°C, use of shade net (50%) or reflective aluminet thermal screens is suggested to lower the ambient temperature. Now-a-days, use of aluminet is preferred over traditional shade net due to better cooling. These nets/screens can be spread permanently as a ceiling beneath greenhouse roofs, or to be installed as a moveable thermal screen. Insect proof net of 40-50% perforation is essential for covering the ventilated area. ICAR- IIVR, Varanasi has developed several farmer-friendly technologies for protected cultivation of vegetables under NV polyhouses. These include healthy plug plant production by seed soaking with salicylic acid and azealic acid @ 100 μM for improved germination and vigour. Disease-free nursery raising using non-soil (cocopeat: vermiculite: perlite:: 3:1:1) medium enriched with neem cake (10%), calcium nitrate (20 g/kg) and microbial consortium (3 ml/kg) produce vigorous seedlings. Besides, training and pruning systems have also been developed for high value vegetables crops for improved yield. Two-stem pruning was found to give better quality yield in tomato (11.0 kg/plant), cherry tomato (2.3 kg/plant) and capsicum (2.5 kg/plant), while Umbrella system in Cucumber (3.5 kg/plant), musk melon (4.08 kg/plant), bitter gourd (3.53 kg/plant). Plant growth stage based fertilization schedule has also been worked out for crops like tomato. Environmental controlled polyhouse/greenhouse: These polyhouses are constructed mainly to extend the growing period of crops or to increase the off-season production of crops by controlling the light, temperature, humidity, carbon-dioxide level and the nature of rooting medium in the polyhouses through external means. Walk-in tunnels: Walk-in tunnels structure is of 2 or 3 m height and is covered with UV film, which is suitable for all types of vegetable crops like okra, brinjal, tomato, chilli, summer squash, gourds, melons, French bean, etc. This structure is meant for cultivation of vegetables during peak winter months so as to protect the crop against low temperature. Such structures are suitable for off-season cultivation of vegetable crops. For instances, summer squash can be raised from December to February, while bottle gourd, sponge gourd and ridge gourd may be taken up from November to March and muskmelon and watermelon during January to April and October to January. Plastic low tunnels: These are miniature structures (0.75-1.0 m height) producing greenhouse like effect, which facilitates the entrapment of carbon dioxide; thereby, enhancing the photosynthetic activity. For construction of low tunnels, film of 100 µ is sufficient. It protects plants from harsh climatic conditions such as rain, wind, hail, snow, etc.