 Keywords: paddy nursery, deodar oil from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E- Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2399 Use of ash for controlling insect-pests in paddy nursery This practice is being used in paddy growing areas of Jammu region (Jammu and Kashmir). In this, the wood is burnt into ash. The ash, thus obtained, is applied in paddy nursery. The ash has insecticidal properties and controls the insect-pests of paddy nursery effectively. Besides, it also enriches soil and improve its fertility. Keywords: wood ash, insecticidal property, paddy nursery Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E- Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2412 Trimming of field bunds, wetting and drying, and dung application to prevent pest and disease attack in paddy During summer, bunds of paddy fields are trimmed to destroy alternate hosts of insects. Alternate wetting and drying helps reduce the pest incidence. The pest and disease incidence is lowered if sheep/goat/pig dungs are applied under irrigated conditions. This is being practised since 19 years. Keywords: weeding, dung, alternate wetting and drying, pest incidence Shri Boopathy 56-C, Kamarajpuram (West), Sengundhapuram, Karur (Tamil Nadu) 693 002 1767 Summer ploughing of rice fields to kill pathogens During summer months, farmers do ploughing following rains, which is called summer ploughing (akras jutai). Summer ploughing kills the resting stage of rice pathogens as well as that of insects, and this practice also reduces the weed population. Farmers of Chhattisgarh region are following this practice. Keywords: summer ploughing, pathogen, insect, weed Director of Extension Services, Indira Gandhi Agricultural University, Krishak Nagar, Raipur (Chhattisgarh) 492 012 2414 Use of neem cake to control stem borer, bacterial leaf blight and gall fly Sacks filled with 8 kg neem cake are immersed in irrigation channels to control stem borer, bacterial leaf blight and gall fly in paddy. The neem cake is used 18-20 days after planting and sacks are replaced after every 25 days. Farmers of Pudupatti village in Madurai Shri R. Sathiyaraman, S Gopalapuram, T Pudupatti, Thirumangalam, Madurai (Tamil Nadu)  district of Tamil Nadu are using this practice since last 7 years. Keywords: paddy, neem cake, stem borer, bacterial leaf blight, gall fly, irrigation water 2396 Use of neem leaves to control pest incidence in rice fields If neem leaves with small stems are applied as green manure in the field, there is no attack of pests and diseases in the rice field. Farmers are using this practice since 14 years. Keywords: neem leaves, pest and disease attack Shri C.