 Yoga potentials can be categorized in the following three parts. 1. Prophylactic potentiates: In the day-to-day life, we are not regularly exercising. This may lead to diseases, like arthritis and diabetes. There is also disharmony between the body and the mind, increased stress, pollution (water, air) and infections. Yoga is a total exercise and small movements through this are indirectly linked to mind, which harmonize mind and body. It helps in stress management by optimizing perception and then resulting in optimized response. Yoga strengthens our internal body organs — liver, kidney and spleen. It also promotes cell-mediated immunity and provides stamina to fight back infections. 2. Promotive potentials: Yoga gives submaximal level of exercise and increases flexibility of body, concentration, memory, learning efficiency and decreases anxiety and stress. 3. Curative potentials: Yoga leads to biochemical changes in the body. Decreased level of blood glucose, blood cholesterol and increased total proteins were observed after yoga. It has been also found to reduce the rate of lactic acid build-up ; thus reducing fatigue as increased levels of lactic acid cause fatigue. Yoga also increases cold resistance of the body by non-thermogenesis. Yoga brings in stability to mind, body and soul, conserves energy and creates mental tranquility. Rajyoga meditation also helps in reducing anxiety, depression, impulsiveness and vulnerability and increases hope and happiness. Introduction of yoga at school/ college level can lead to holistic personality 174 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series development, in learning healthy lifestyle, promoting creativity and innovation and may help in coping with stress, along with resilience-building. Key takeaways Yoga is a science based way of life, and needs to be promoted. Yoga should be adopted in the ICAR Institutions. 175 Health and Good Living THE HIDDEN GEMS OF THE SLEEP Khurshed Batliwala Sleep is a natural recurring state of the mind and the body, characterized by the altered consciousness, relatively inhibited sensory activity, reduced muscle activity and the activity of almost all voluntary muscles during rapid-eye movement (REM) in sleep and with reduced responses to surroundings. When one sleeps well that directly affects ones mental and physical health. Unhealthy habits and lifestyle choices may leave one tossing- and-turning at night and in a way may adversely affect one’s mood, brain, heart health, immune system, creativity, vitality and weight. Sleep is very important for our alertness; there is a road law that stops one to drink and drive but there is no law to check for drowsy driving. More accidents are caused owing to drowsy driving. Even the decision-making ability is affected when one has not had enough sleep. All the brain-related diseases such as Alzheimer are due to lack of sleep.