 Dairy farmers were also suggested to preserve this fodder by making silage for scarcity period. The green fodder yield was 34.59 q/ha from maize grain producing crop. Relay cropping of green fodder oat and berseem with paddy Traditionally mono-cropped in rainy season as the Indian Farming 38 March 2024 Indian Farming 39 March 2024 residual moisture is low to support winter season crops in sequential system. Failure of rabi fodder was due to late sowing and late harvesting of paddy. In rabi season, low irrigation facility was another cause of not sowing of green fodder. Oat/ Berseem seed was broadcasted 5-6 days before harvesting of paddy in the field having moisture. It saved irrigation, ploughing cost and green fodder was ready for harvesting 21 days before than sowing of green fodder after ploughing. Production improved by 45.06 and 30.79% respectively in oat and berseem. More than 15-acre green fodder in rabi season were grown through relay cropping in Banka district of Bihar. Decrease wastage by planned sowing In most of the area of Bihar, it was observed that the average time taken to complete harvesting of green fodder from field was 15-20 days. Therefore, the first day harvest of the immature fodder and last day harvest over mature fodder resulted in less nutritions fodder. So, sowing of fodder at interval of 5 days and area decided according to animal rearing which fullfill the fodder requirement for only 5 days. So, sowing of green fodder in six groups resulted in 2nd group in mature stage after harvesting of first group and first group fodder again ready for harvesting after harvesting of last group. So planned grazing land were developed under front line demonstration programme at five goat farms in Banka district. It helps in natural grazing, saving of labour for harvesting of green fodder and movement of goat. It enables land use for dual purpose. Use of non-conventional feed resources In the state districts, there is scarcity of green grasses palatable upto 200 g/day and increased in weight gain by 630-640 g and average daily gain increased by 8.5-10 g/day. Farmers also successfully made silage by mixing with 50% sorghum. Low-cost hydroponic green fodder production Hydroponics is the scientific way of growing plants/ crops in water without any soil, but generally in controlled conditions/ environment. Fodders including maize, barley, wheat, oats, rye, alfalfa and triticale can be produced by hydroponics. Others, including cowpea, horse gram, sun hemp, ragi, bajra, foxtail millet and Jowar have also been grown successfully by the use of hydroponics. Production of hydroponic fodder under low-cost management can be an alternative to traditional fodder production. Feeding of hydroponically grown maize and wheat fodder can improve productive and reproductive efficiency of lactating cows with better economic return.