 On the basis of the result obtained form this laboratory experiment, it is inferred that tamarind fruits and mahua flowers have hygoscopic properties and can be used as indicators of atmospheric wetness, and on this basis occurrence of rainfall can be predicted in the monsoon season. CONCLUSION Results obtained from both the PRA and laboratory experiment are in good agreement with each other. Hence gain in weights of dry tamarind fruits and mahua flowers just before the monsoon and within the monsoon season can be taken as indicators of rainfall.   METHODS OF WEATHER FORECASTING Code :1692 Title of the ITK :Forecasting the onset and cessation of rains (monsoon) by observing orientation of spider web Description of the ITK :In this practice the weather is predicted with the help of spider’s web. When the rain is about to begin, the spider makes its webs in opposite direction to which the rain is coming, i.e. spider makes web vertical to the earth and sky; and after rain the direction of web is horizontal to the earth and sky. All the farmers of the Banda Jaipur village of Ranchi district in Jharkhand use this age-old practice. Name and address of the discloser :Ms R. Kandulna, Hawai Nagar (Merina X-ray Clinic), Hatia, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006 Location of use of the ITK :Village Banda Jaipur, Block Raniya, Ranchi (Jharkhand) Experimenter :Dr A. Wadood, Senior Scientist-cum- Associate Professor and Head, Department of Agricultural Physics, Birsa Agricultural University, Kanke, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006 METHODOLOGY Location The study was carried out in village Banda Jaipur, block Raniya, dist. Ranchi (Jharkhand). PRA and field study Validation through PRA was conducted in Banda Jaipur village of Ranchi district (Jharkhand) covering 49 practitioners to determine the relevance and use of the ITK. Five factors were considered for eliciting the respondents’ opinion on the referred ITK. Experiment Case studies were conducted during pre- monsoon and monsoon periods in Banda Jaipur and other adjoining villages of Rania block (Ranchi district) to determine the accuracy of the forecasting or prediction of rains through the reported ITK. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Data on PRA presented in Table 1 reveal that the referred method of weather forecasting is 70.4% accurate. The respondents also perceived that occurrence of rains is most likely to happen within a week (62.2%), followed by rain occurring within 2 weeks (60%). However, there is least possibility of the occurrence after 2 weeks of forecasting (less than 50%). But its usefulness was found to be about 60%. Table 1. Matrix scoring for assessment of accuracy and usefulness of forecasting of rains through orientation of spider web Factor Mean score Accuracy of forecasting/prediction 7.04 Duration between forecasting and 6.22 occurrence (within 1 week) Duration between forecasting and 6.00 occurrence (within 2 weeks) Duration between forecasting and 4.