 NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 92 Annexure-IV National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (Indian Council of Agricultural Research) Rajendranagar, Hyderabad Research Study on “Assessment of Training Transfer and Impact of CAFT at NARS” Case Study on Training Effectiveness Part: I Profile Name and address for correspondence with mobile and E-mail ID Name and address of Organization Designation/ Cadre Discipline Educational qualification (Highest Degree) Age (Years) Experience (Years) Title of CAFT programme CAFT centre Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 93 Part: II Expectations from CAFT Programme We are sure you may have several expectations from the CAFT training you are undergoing currently. Based on your expectations, please rank the following in the table below: S. # Areas of expectations Your rank 1. Know the current research trends to plan new research project 2. Learn new knowledge and skills for improving my research competencies 3. Learn new knowledge and skills for improving my academic and teaching competencies 4. Learn new knowledge and skills for improving my extension competencies 5. Establish and strengthen professional network with other participants 6. Create new facility at my institute (lab, farm, etc.) 7. Organize professional events (seminar, conference, etc.) in collaboration with CAFT centre / other participants 8. To fulfill career advancement obligation Others (if any, pl. specify) 9. 10. 11. 12. Part: III Kind give your rating ( √ ) about the CAFT programme/ centre based on your present experience CAFT Training activities 5 4 3 2 1 Pedagogy Theoretical back-up and content coverage Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 94 Opportunities for hands-on experience Resource material provided Extent of involvement of guest faculty Level of training seriousness maintained Training facilities Boarding facilities Lodging arrangements Transport facilities Learning environment Capacity of institute’s faculty 5-Excellent; 4-Very good; 3-Good; 2-Average; 1-Poor Part: IV Kindly mention suggestions if any, for improving the effectiveness of programmes organized by this CAFT centre (Name and Signature) Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report.