3 (Raleigh, NC, USA) and compared with sequences in the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) database using the BLAST search tool (http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Blast.cgi, accessed on 1 August 2024). The ﬁnal sequences were submitted to GenBank. Phylogenetic analysis was performed using MEGA software v11.0.8 (Philadelphia, PA, USA). The ITS sequences obtained were utilized to construct a phylogenetic tree, with major clusters determined based on sequence similarity. The phylogenetic relationships were inferred using the maximum likelihood (ML) method, and branch support was assessed through 1000 bootstrap replications to ensure robust conﬁdence in the resulting relationships. 2.4. Pathogenicity Assay The pathogenicity assay was conducted in a greenhouse at the National School of Agriculture in Meknes, to fulﬁll Koch’s postulates. The experiment utilized one-year-old asymptomatic olive trees (var. Picholine Marocaine), and pure cultures of an isolated representative of the main species were identiﬁed. Four saplings were inoculated per isolate, with additional four serving as controls. To initiate the trial, olive saplings were carefully removed from their substrate and cleaned with tap water to eliminate any adhering soil particles. The roots were then wounded using a sterile scalpel to facilitate pathogen entry. For inoculation, mycelial plugs of the isolate, cultured on V8 agar medium at 25 °C for 14 days, were distributed around the root system of each olive seedling and then covered with sterile soil [34]. The inoculated olive saplings were grown in a greenhouse environment maintained at 25 °C. To facilitate proper interaction between the isolates and the saplings, the plants were maintained in ﬂooded soil conditions for 48 h, with ﬂooding initiated immediately after soil infestation. Control plants were treated similarly, using sterile V8 agar plugs, as described above. Throughout the experimental period, the plants were irrigated regularly, to ensure optimal growth conditions, for three months. Three months after inoculation, the saplings were examined for the presence of disease symptoms and carefully removed from the soil for the assessment of disease severity. The severity of disease symptoms on plant roots was visually assessed utilizing a 1–5 scale [35]: • 1: Healthy white roots with no observed disease (0%); • 2: Slightly aﬀected roots, 25% root rot or initial symptoms of disease; Agriculture 2025, 15, 435 5 of 15 • 3: Moderately aﬀected roots, 50% root rot with early browning; • 4: Severely aﬀected roots, 75% root rot with advanced browning; • 5: Dead roots, 100% disease severity. Symptomatic roots were sampled for the re-isolation of the pathogen to conﬁrm its identity and ensure the validation of Koch’s postulates. 2.5. Statistical Analysis The pathogenicity assay was replicated twice across time, employing a completely randomized design (CRD).