 Lecture cum demonstration method, case method, group brain storming, syndicate method, business games, simulation exercises, in basket exercise, programmed instruction, experiential learning techniques such as sensitivity training, T-group, transactional analysis and fish bowl exercise. Evaluation of training - types and techniques of training evaluation. Motivation, stress management and organizational behaviour as facilitators of human resource development. Capacity Building in relation to agriculture, Dairying, Poultry, Piggery, Goat and Sheep farming, cottage industries, Rabbit farming, Apiculture, Sericulture, Biofertilizer, Floriculture, and Biopesticides. Unit 5: Research Methodology in Extension Education Social research- concept, principles and approach. Selection and identification of research problems, methods of data collection- interview method and mailed questionnaires, variables -meaning and types, independent, dependent and intervening variables. Hypothesis – concept, characteristics, types and testing. MAXMINCON principle, Research design - concept and types, field studies, case studies and survey method. Measurement – meaning and levels. Methods of sampling and statistical tests. Reliability and validity of tests, normal distribution, tests of significance, ANOVA, correlation and regression, scaling techniques. Processing of data, coding - tabulation. Analysis and interpretation. Writing scientific reports, citing references. Participatory approaches, PRA, RRA, PLA and PTD. Unit 6: Programme Planning, Evaluation & Diffusion and Adoption of Innovations Concept, steps, principles and theories of programme planning. Steps in programme planning for agriculture and livestock development, organizing campaigns, mass vaccination programmes and variety of extension activities, evaluation of veterinary extension programmes, compilation and report writing. Evaluation of agriculture and animal husbandry development programmes and schemes. Monitoring and evaluation – concept, significance, types, methods and tools. Theoretical models of programme planning. Felt needs; need-based programmes. Social action. Five Year Plans – critical analysis with special reference to programmes for women, children and youth. SWOT/TOWS analysis of development programmes. Concept and elements of diffusion and adoption for social change. Diffusion process, adoption process, models of diffusion and adoption, adopter categories and their characteristics. Factors influencing adoption and attributes of innovations. Concept and stages of Innovation-decision process, consequences of innovations. Unit 7: Extension Management Concept and principles of administration and management, classical and modern theories, schools of management thought. Functions of management – planning, organizing, staffing, directing and leading, controlling, coordinating, reporting and budgeting. Types and methods of administrative communication. Decision-making in organization.