 The results of this study show that the Trans- Gengatic Plain Region (TGPR) ranks ﬁrst in agricultural sustainability among India’s 14 main- stream agro-climatic regions, while the Eastern Himalayan Region (EHR) ranks last. Higher livestock ownership, cropping intensity, per capita income, irrigation intensity, share of institu- tional credit, food grain productivity, crop diversiﬁcation, awareness of minimum support price, knowledge sharing with fellow farmers, and young and working population, as well as better transportation facilities and membership of agricultural credit societies are inﬂuencing indicators responsible for higher agricultural sustainability in TGPR compared with EHR. Although, the scores of environmental sustainability indicators of EHR are quite good, its scores of social and economic security indicators are fairly low, putting it at the bottom of the rank of agricultural sustainability index among the 14 mainstream agro-climatic regions in India. This demonstrates the need of understanding agricultural sustainability in relation to social and economic di- mensions. In a nation as diverse and complicated as India, it is the social structure that determines the health of the economy and environment. Last but not least, the sustainability assessment methodology may be used in a variety of India’s agro-climatic regions. 1. Introduction Food security and environmental protection are two key areas where sustainable agriculture may contribute to advance global sustainable development (Singh, 2020a). Sustaining and improving both economic capability and life quality are central to the Sus- tainable Development Goals (SDGs), which aim to meet people’s needs over long term without causing irreversible harm to environment and renewable resources, while also reducing the use of non-renewable resources (DeClerck et al., 2016). The SDG-2 (zero hunger), SDG-12 (responsible consumption and production), SDG-13 (climate action), and SDG-15 (life on land) all regard agriculture as a crucial component of sustainable development by the year 2030. Natural resources should be utilized more efﬁciently and waste should be cut * Corresponding author. E-mail address: surendra.singh735@gmail.com (S.S. Jatav). Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Regional Sustainability journal homepage: www.keaipublishing.com/en/journals/regional-sustainability https://doi.org/10.1016/j.regsus.2023.05.006 Received 31 October 2022; Received in revised form 26 March 2023; Accepted 29 May 2023 Available online 16 June 2023 2666-660X/© 2023 Xinjiang Institute of Ecology and Geography, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/). Regional Sustainability 4 (2023) 218–234 down , if we want to increase overall output and productivity per unit of land.