 Thus, the measure will provide both backward and forward linkages to evolve integrated supply chains for different agri produce in the country. Agriculture markets in India are regulated through the model APMC Acts. The number ofregulated (secondary) agricultural markets stood at 7,157 as of March 2010 as compared tojust 286 in 1950. There are also about 22,221 rural periodical markets, about 15 per cent ofwhich function under the ambit of APMC regulation. According to recommendations by National Farmers Commission, availability of Markets should be within 5 km radius (approx. 80 sq km). www.theinternationaljournal.org > RJSSM: Volume: 04, Number: 07, November 2014  In the constitution of India, Agriculture marketing is a state subject thus each state has separate laws under APMC act for regulated market yard called mandi or APMC market. Entire Geographical area is divided into ―Market Area‖ wherein Markets are managed by Mandi committee and governed by APMC Act. Out of the total 7310 wholesale markets in the country, 7161 are covered under APMC Regulation. Organized agricultural marketing is promoted through such network of Regulated Markets through APMC Act. Farmers are required to bring their produce to APMC market yard for sale. Under the APMC systems, markets are designed to be regionalized and fragmented, which is against the basics of a structured market place. These market yards are required to have adequate infrastructure to enable farmers traders to store, grade and test the goods on quality parameters. But these infrastructures are missing in most of the markets and farmers rarely get any services. As per rule in APMC market, commodity brought by farmers for sale should be kept open on auction floor where buyers in presence of APMC officials and commission agents bid price and highest bidder are entitled to purchase. But, in reality whatever price offered by buyers has to be agreed by the farmers as he cannot afford to take back the commodity in absence of storage facilities, as it involves cost and time. Agricultural markets in India, in particular the supply chain management and business models, are inefficient. In India, farmers’ produce is generally disposed of in the village, rural/primary market or secondary agricultural market. The challenges facing supply-chain management and agribusiness in India can be broadly classified into three, namely, 1) lack of accessibility to regulated markets, 2) lack of competition under the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act, and 3) absence of a nationwide common agriculture market. These are challenges that run across the various channels through which the supply-chain and agribusiness models operate. These channels are (i) Producer-Consumer, (ii) Producer-Retailer- Consumer, (iii) Producer-Wholesaler-Retailer-Consumer, (iv) Producer-Commission agent- Wholesaler-Retailer-Consumer and (v) Producer-Village Merchant-Wholesaler-Retailer-Consumer.