 yy It improves better acclimatization of developed plantlets through tissue culture techniques. yy It helps to maintain the stock plants, grafted plantlets and micro-propagated plant. Protected structures at BUAT, Banda Natural ventilated polyhouse It is manually operated and comes under mid-range cost. Naturally ventilated polyhouse are the protected structures where no heating or cooling devices are provided for climate control. Cost of these structures is less than hi-tech structure but higher than others (Table 2). These greenhouses can efficiently be used year-round for growing parthenocarpic slicing cucumber, off-season muskmelon, tomato and sweet pepper for 8–9 months duration. This structure is made up of stainless steel and wall and roof with plastic walls. Polythene sheet (150 gm thick) used in construction further prevents entry of ultraviolet light, conserves CO2 and enhances plant growth and development. Temperature and moisture inside the polyhouse are comparatively higher than the outside condition, which improves photosynthesis and uniform plant growth. But now, the time has come when unemployed educated youths should be motivated and trained in Bundelkhand of Uttar Pradesh to use naturally ventilated greenhouse technology for cultivation of high value vegetables for higher profits. The basic prerequisite of implementing the technology is the selection of appropriate design based on the climatic conditions, available market and the type of vegetables. Under extreme hot periods (May–July), rooftops of the greenhouses should be covered with shade nets (preferably with black colour) allowing a space between the shade net and roof surface for air movement. Shade nethouse The Bundelkhand region encounters high solar radiation and high temperature that adversely affect crop production. Therefore, the use of shade net-houses is essentially required. In general, shade net-house comes with different shading intensity shade-nets (40-75% shading intensity depending upon different crops) of different colours, i.e. black, green and white that can easily allow us to grow vegetable and ornamental crops. Shade net-house Cocopeat, vermiculite and perlite Healthy seed germination Filling of pro-tray with cocopeat, vermiculite and perlite Healthy seedlings Seed sown in pro-tray with media of cocopeat, vermiculite and perlite Large scale seedlings production January–February 2022 39 is considered as one of the real innovations to provide development of healthy seedlings for various horticultural crops irrespective of climatic conditions. These structures are less costly than above structures. It not only protects the crops from harmful ultraviolet and infrared radiation but also protects from the extreme temperatures and helps to maintain air and soil moisture. Large-scale use of shade net-houses during harsh summer months is advised for cultivation of different horticultural crops.