 Mushroom cultivation is carried out indoor in any mud or brick houses/rooms, thatched shed, basement, or garages, etc. and Paddy straw mushroom can be grown inside as well as outside in shady places like fruit orchards of mango or litchi or banana. Among the mushrooms, white button mushroom has maximum share (73%) followed by oyster mushroom (16%), paddy straw mushroom (7%) and milky mushroom (3%) in India. In 2016-2017, Indian Mushroom Industry generated revenue of ` 7282.26 lacs by export of 1,054 q of white button mushroom in canned and frozen form. In India, varieties of edible mushroom are grown locally by purchasing of quality mushroom from the seller of mushroom spawn; as per increasing demand of mushroom spawn by the growers, an estimated requirement of spawn is about 8,000-10,000 tonnes/year. Several unemployed youth and aspirants are looking for mushroom production technology as a startups especially in spawn production, button mushroom (Agaricus bisporus), oyster mushroom (Pleurotus spp.) and medicinal mushrooms like Shiitake (Lentinus edodes) and Cordyceps militaris of the urban and peri-urban areas due to their marketing. Business opportunities/model in mushroom Setup of mushroom spawn production unit as a profitable venture: Mushroom spawn production is a profitable agribusiness model/venture and can be started with minimum investment in short period of time. In India, the demand of high-quality mushroom spawn is increasing day-by-day due to gradually increasing popularity as a cottage or naturally ventilated production and in controlled conditions production units. A setup of successful venture of mushroom spawn production unit requires hands on training (3-5 days) and roughly ` 4-6 lakhs for purchase of basic microbiological equipment’s likewise Autoclave, laminar flow/biosafety, hot air oven and air conditioner and two room set of infrastructure. Mushroom spawn can be produced in three simple steps, 1. Preparation of mushroom spawn substrates by soaking, washing, boiling of the grain’s substrates, 2. Sterilization of the prepared substrates in poly propylene bags with the help of autoclaves at 121oC (16 lbps) for one hour, 3. Inoculation and incubation of the sterilized substrates first inoculated with mother spawn (button/ oyster/milky or shiitake) which can be prepared by the tissue culture on malt extract agar medium or potato dextrose agar medium of the mushroom and these tissue culture mycelium are used for growing of mother spawn on sterilized grains in bottles and this mother spawn is further used in multiplication/production of commercial spawn. One bottle of mother spawn (300 g) is sufficient March–April 2023 95 to multiply in 25-30 polypropylene bags (wt. 500 g/bag) and after inoculation, inoculated bags are incubated at ambient temperature or 24±2oC.