 For DNA vaccine against rabies, the viral RNA was isolated and rabies virus glycoprotein gene was amplified and cDNA was made by using primers F and primers B. The PCR product was purified and kept for further studies. ● Field samples were tested using reference infectious bursal disease antiseurm. A total of 81 idomas were screened by testing the supernatant by ELISA. Though 20 clones were positive, the titre values were low. ● Infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) isolation was attempted with 102 field samples collected from suspected birds, resulting in three isolates. IBV ‘S’ gene specific primers were selected and used for screening field samples by polymerase chain reaction. ● A method for isolation of good-quality RNA with satisfactory yields from mango and banana fruits (ripe and unripe) was standardized. ● Nucellus cultures of polyembryonic Vellaikolumban mango were established to induce callus and somatic embryos. Modified MS medium and dark incubation were ideal for induction and proliferation of callus. Bulking up of callus was achieved and proliferative secondary somatic embryogenesis induced. Under NATP, nine subprojects were approved for developing Human Resource Development in the field of Plant Genetic Resource Management, Plant Genetic Engineering and Molecular Breeding, Plant Virology, Seed Technology, Biofertilizers, Veterinary Biotechnology and Immunology, Micropropagation of Horticultural and Forest Spices, Biological Control and Sustainability of Rice-wheat Cropping System. Suitable training materials of these subprojects have been developed for distribution among the participants. A subproject on referral laboratory on Pesticide Residues was approved to be established in the Division of Agricultural Chemicals, IARI, New Delhi. COMPETITIVE GRANT PROGRAMME The Competitive Grant Programme (CGP) was started in July 1999 under the NATP. ● Information generated on adult plant response of Lr genes ● DNA polymorphism indicated variation at DNA level in pathotypes of different wheat rusts ● A simple equipment developed for royal jelly extraction ● Method standardized for isolation of good-quality RNA with satisfactory yield from mango Shoot emergence in germinating somatic embryo Vellaikolumban mango DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 200 ● ●● ●● Transgenic tobacco plants carrying PA gene developed ● cDNA libraries made using RNA isolated from heat-shocked as well as control tissue of Pusa 169 rice ● ●● ●● Research priorities for main production system finalized ● ●● ●● Guidelines for prioritization of research proposals for CGP prepared and widely circulated Till date two rounds have been successfully completed. In the first round 79 research projects and in the second round 190 projects were approved by the RPC and sanctioned. The third round of CGP is in progress in which about 3,788 concept notes have been received.