 Soil application of mycorrhizal consortium @ 20 kg along with 500 kg of compost/ha at the time of sugarcane planting proved an effective bio-control of parasitic weed Striga spp. in sugarcane. A multi-residue analysis method was developed for simultaneous determination of 30 herbicides in agricultural commodities using LC- MS/MS. Similarly, a multi-residue analysis method using TLC with the detection limit of <0.01 µg/g was also developed for determination of herbicide combination products namely, pretilachlor + pyrazosulfuron, cyhalofop-p-butyl + penoxsulam and traifmaone + ethoxysulfruon. A user friendly multi-lingual mobile app named ‘Herb Cal’ for application of herbicides was developed. After entering the herbicide information such as crop, area, dose and herbicide formulation to be used, the app automatically calculates the amount of herbicide and quantity of water to be taken for spray. Biological control of alien invasive weed Salvinia molesta in a 20 ha Salvinia infested pond in village Padua of Katni district was achieved by releasing 2,000 adult weevils of a host specific insect Cyrtobagous saliviniae. With the increase of bioagent population 50, 80 and 100% control of S. molesta was achieved by 8, 11 and 18 months, respectively. In grapes, microbe-based technologies, Eco- pesticide, Bio-Pulse, UBSTH-501 and Bio-Care 24 were evaluated against Erysiphe necator grape powdery mildew and integrated these technologies with a safer fungicide (sulphur). The percent disease index (PDI) reduced significantly in grape leaves treated with Eco- Pesticide®/sulphur (22.37) followed by Bio-Pulse®/ sulphur (22.62) and Bio-Care 24®/sulphur (24.62). An efficient technology for multiplication of clonal rootstock of apple through cutting under greenhouse conditions using soilless rooting medium was standardized. Field application of nanoparticles of iron and zinc showed a significant increase in leaf Fe and Zn content after 14 and 28 days of application over conventional fertilizers. The performance of Crimson Seedless, Manjari Kishmish and Manjari Medika grapevines grafted on Dogridge and 110R was found superior over other rootstocks. A microbial consortium CISH Decomposer has potential to accelerate the composting rate. DRIS indices and critical leaf nutrient concentrations were developed for oil palm plantations. Coconut-based Integrated Farming System (CBIFS) realized a net return of 6,53,853/ha. Application of customized fertilizers in sweet potato was best for higher tuber yield (22.74 t/ha) compared to present POP (19.67 t/ha). Low cost technology for the paddy straw mushroom cultivation was developed. Vertical farming was standardized for growing important high value flower crops by utilization of 11 feet vertical space of the polyhouse. Nutritional and chemical finger Overview icar annual report 2022-23 6 prints of popular turmeric varieties were developed.