 Estimation of gundhi bug infestation in rice pests comprised stem borer, rice hispa, white grub, clavig ralla bug, gundhi bug, rice weevil, tiger beetle, rice skipper, leaf folder, rodents etc. (Table2). Population of gundhi bug was found to be low. Its incidence was affected due to prevailing weather conditions during crop stage. Validation trials were laid out in plots having some incidence of gundhi bug, using RBD experimental design with nine treatments and three replications. The yield data recorded from trial plots under different treatments (Table 4) showed that the ITK was effective in management of rice pests. As against 13.55 q/ha and 28.35 q/ha from control plots at Dohna and Manda villages respectively, the yield harvested from the plots with ITK treatments were 19.90 q/ha. and 31.66 q/ha. CONCLUSION The gundhi bug infestation was too low to establish any effect of ITK on its management. The ITK was, however, seems to be effective in management of other rice pests. Trials have to be laidout again to check the effectiveness of the ITK in the management of gundhi insect. Fig. 2. Trial plot with low infestation of gundhi bug during 2002 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code : 1418 Title of the ITK : Control of caseworm (Nymphula depunctalis) in rice by leaves of parsa and sali Description of the ITK : Caseworms are very common in the area of Khaspokharia village of west Singhbhum district in Jharkhand. Fresh leaves of parsa (Cleistanthus collinus) and sali (Boswellia serrata)are spread on the insect-infested field @ 5 kg leaves per 100 m2. Majority of insects (about 70_80%) are controlled with this practice. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Sanat Kumar Sawaiyan, Dumbisai, Chaibasa, West Singhbhum (Jharkhand) Location of use of the ITK : Village Khaspokharia, Block Tantnagar, West Singhbhum (Jharkhand) Geographical indicators : Parsa (Cleistanthus collinus) is a small deciduous tree distributed from the Deccan peninsula, north wards up to Ganges. It thrives well on dry rocky ground. Sali (Boswellia serrata) is a moderate or large branching tree with a bole, 12_15 feet in height and 3_5 feet in girth, generally found in dry hilly areas. It is common in most parts of Bihar, Orissa, Rajputana, Central Provinces, Central India, the Deccan, eastern states and north Gujarat. Experimenter : Dr. N. Kudada, Assistant Professor cum-Junior Scientist, Department of Plant Pathology and Dr. R.P. Singh `Ratan', Head, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) METHODOLOGY Location Village Khaspokharia, Block Tantnagar, West Singhbhum (Jharkhand) Extend and coverage The extent of damage caused by caseworm is about 60 per cent. PRA and field study Field study was conducted following the PRA methodology with 15 respondents. The parameters/factors included were efficacy in controlling pests, cost effectiveness, availability of materials and yield.