 The exposure given to students through training programmes and internships under NAHEP-IDP has motivated agricultural students to become budding entrepreneurs. NAHEP suitably addresses unemployment issues, particularly for rural youths, through improving employment opportunities and entrepreneurship capabilities. Partner AUs have taken several initiatives to meet this goal, such as: yy Many students of partner AUs got placement in renowned companies. Outcome-focused trainings conducted under NAHEP–IDP and NAHEP-Component 2 helped students to achieve this milestone. yy Several students of partner AUs have established their own start-ups during their final year of under-graduation. Career Development Centres (CDCs) build under Component 2 is also empowering and enriching the student’s professional skills to cope up with global challenges in the agriculture and allied sector. CDCs have created student-centric career development platform to achieve professional excellence through comprehensive career counselling, innovative educational programming, promotion of agri entrepreneurial skills for better employability. 26 Covid-19 pandemic, Resilient Agricultural Education System (RAES) has been introduced under NAHEP, wherein teaching and learning operates seamlessly across multiple situations and contexts, with minimal impact on the learners and other operational aspects such as assignments and examinations of the learners. Therefore, NAHEP is Promoting a Resilient Agricultural Education System (RAES). The focus is strengthening existing Digital infrastructure and online learning platforms in AUs, developing a discipline-specific Digital Content repository and a system-wise Digital Capacity building program. Facilitative units have been established to enable the academic and research infrastructure of AUs (IIIC- Industry Institution Interaction Cell/Start-up Cell/ Incubation Cell/Placement Cell, etc.) under NAHEP. These fully equipped facilitative centres have been established to enhance the teaching effectiveness of faculties and students’ learning outcomes. Here are a few initiatives undertaken by partner AUs to meet the goal: NAHEP is Promoting a Resilient Agricultural Education System (RAES). The focus is strengthening existing Digital infrastructure and online learning platforms in AUs, developing a discipline-specific Digital Content repository and a system-wise Digital Capacity building program. yy Established Learning and Assessment Centre to demonstrate the anatomy of animals/birds, perform virtual surgeries through simulation models, etc. yy Established artificial intelligence (AI) laboratories with an aim to get students acquainted with advanced technologies such as artificial intelligence, robotics, drones, sensors, CAD designing and simulation and precision agriculture.