 Under the IRRI-CIWA collaborative project, 8 producer groups mobilizing 1,000 women farmers processed and marketed aromatic rice through Chitri Dora farmers Producer Company in Koraput district of Odisha. Under the DSIR funded project on adding value to fish, consumer perception on value added products (VAP) were studied by conducting a survey of 150 urban consumers of Odisha. Thirty per cent consumers opined that they are willing to buy VAP products of fish if they are available in prices comparable to that of chicken/veg products. Perceived occupational needs of fisherwomen were studied through survey of 200 fisherwomen selected from 20 different SHG groups from Astaranga and Puri ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 138 SOCIAL SCIENCE Sadar blocks of Puri district, Odisha, in which credit was noted as the most important need by 100% women. Recipes of prawn pickle and other value added fish products were standard- ized. Market link developed for the brand Fishlikes prepared by women SHG groups. The penetration of the product into the market growing with sales through 4 falcon fresh stores and local shops. women getting a profit of ` 130–150/kg of pickle. The ICAR-CIWA facilitated for procurement of FSSAI license and GST and also trade license from Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation under the trade name Fishlikes. Technology assessment and refinement: Various intercropping models suitable for mango orchards were demonstrated in a participatory mode to cater to the financial and nutritional requirements of 55 farm families in 2 villages of aspirational district Mayurbhanj. A sustainable livelihood index was developed in which pineapple as intercrop got the highest score (86.6). Pineapple proved to be the best intercrop in terms of environmental conservation, input recycling, employment generation and income enhancement. A field study was conducted to assess the effect of critical supplementation of mineral mixture in lactating crossbred and it resulted in improved milk yield by 14.5% with significantly enhanced reproductive efficiency. The net return over feed cost and feed efficiency was improved by 21 and 12% in mineral supplemented group, respectively. A similar study was conducted in goats which resulted in improved number of services per pregnancy, reduced post parturient complications predominantly abortion (30%), retention of placenta and dystokia (10%) in mineral mixture supplemented group. The analysis of gender roles and needs in the homestead aquaculture was analysed and social acceptance, support from counterpart/ family members, technological knowhow on polyculture of small indigenous fishes with Indian major carps, timely availability of quality seed and availability of credit were perceived as most important by all the women farmers. In polyculture of Indian major carps with small indigenous fishes, an average production of 298.2 kg of IMC was obtained from 0.17 ha water area (which was around 80–130 kg/0.