 This invaluable resource ensures that pig farmers can effectively manage and track the vaccination schedule for their swine, promoting optimal health and disease prevention. CONCLUSION It is crucial for pig farmers to be well-informed about the characteristic signs of various diseases and receive training on scientific pig farming practices. By understanding the specific symptoms, disease control tools, and hygienic and biosecurity practices, farmers can promptly identify and address potential health issues within their herds. Equipping themselves with knowledge and training ensures that they can implement effective preventive measures and employ appropriate practices when necessary. Ultimately, this proactive approach leads to healthier pigs, improved herd management, and enhanced productivity within the pig farming industry. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: vetmilton@gmail.com Pig affected with sarcoptic mange and micrograph of Sarcoptes scabiei var. suis Plant trees, Conserve water, Protect environment. Indian Farming 29 November 2023 Scientific management of insect infestation during storage of minor millets Guru P N1*, Renu Balakrishnan1 and Nancy1 1ICAR-Central Institute of Post-Harvest Engineering and Technology, Ludhiana, Punjab 141 004 On the occasion of International Year of Millets 2023, the nutri-cereals/ minor millets are getting special attention in diet. Previously the production was limited for these crops due to several reasons, however the nutritional benefits and the hardy adaptation made these crops popular day-by-day. Apart from production, the storage of these grains also needs to be taken care. Insects are the major culprits of the storage losses of millets. Management of these grains for their safer storage is the need of hour. This article provides the list of important insects infesting millets during storage and their scientific management to minimise the losses. Keywords: Insects, Millets, Management, Nutri-cereals, Storage I NDIA is one of the largest producers of millets in the world, with a long history of millet cultivation. This includes various types of millets such as pearl millet, finger millet, sorghum, and small millets like foxtail, proso, and kodo millets. Among these, pearl millet is the most widely grown millet in India, accounting for ~50% of the total production. It is mostly grown in the states of Rajasthan, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh. Finger millet, another important millet, is mostly grown in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana. Minor millets are the sub-group wherein they are less concentrated these days. They are mainly grown in India and other parts of Asia and Africa. They are often referred to as ’nutri-cereals‛ due to their high nutritional value, especially in terms of protein, dietary fibre, and micronutrients. They are also considered to be more resilient to climate change and pest attacks than other major cereal crops.