 Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board—The provisions are for the separate autonomous body which would be responsible for the recruitment to posts in the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) of the ICAR and other group A posts in ICAR. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 180 APPENDICES APPENDIX 2 DEPARTMENTAL ACCOUNTING ORGANIZATION Accounting Organization of Department of Agricultural Research and Education duly audited and submitting them to the CGA, duly signed by the Chief Accounting Authority. (c) Arranging internal inspection of payment and accounts records maintained by the various subordinate formations and Pay and Accounts Offices of the Department and inspection of records pertaining to transaction of Government Ministries / Departments, maintained in Public Sector Banks. 4. The Chief Controller of Accounts, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare performs his duties with the assistance of Controller/ Assistant Controller of Accounts, three Pr. Accounts Officers at HQ and 10 Pay and Accounts Offices. Four Pay and Accounts Offices are located in Delhi/NCR, two in Mumbai, One each in Chennai, Cochin, Kolkata and Nagpur. All payments pertaining to the Department /Ministry are made through PAOs/CDDOs attached with respective PAOs. DDOs present their claims /bills to the designated PAOs/CDDOs, who issue cheques/ releases e-payment after exercising the necessary scrutiny as per provisions contained in Civil Accounts Manual, Receipt and Payment Rules and other order issued by Government from time to time. 5. As per Para 1.2.3 of Civil Accounts Manual, Principal Accounts Office at HQ functions under a Principal Accounts Officer who is responsible for: (a) Consolidation of the accounts of the Ministry/ Department in the manner prescribed by CGA; (b) Preparation of Annual Appropriation Accounts of the Demands for Grants controlled by Ministry/Department, submission of Statement of Central Transactions and material for the Finance Account of the Union Government (Civil) to the Controller General of Accounts; (c) Payment of loans and grants to State Government through Reserve Bank of India and wherever this office has a drawing account, payment therefrom to Union Territory Government/ Administrations; (d) Preparation of manuals keeping in view the objective of management accounting system if any, and for rendition of technical advice to Pay and Accounts Offices, maintaining necessary liaison with CGA’s Office and to effect overall coordination and control in accounting matters; (e) Maintaining Appropriation Audit Registers for the Ministry/ Department as a whole to watch the progress of expenditure under the various Grants operated on by the Ministry/Department; Principal Accounts Office/Officer also performs all administrative and coordinating function of the accounting organization and renders necessary financial, technical, accounting advice to department as well as to local Pay & Accounts offices and Out Station Pay & Accounts offices. 6.