 In biological processes category of Dicanthium, responses were found to salt stress in 190 transcripts, positive and negative regulation to salt stress in 29 transcripts, oxidative stresses in 448 transcripts, cellular response oxidative stress in 35 transcripts. Validation of DEGs involved in salt tolerance pathways namely, sodium/hydrogen exchanger (NHX), dehydrin/LEA group 2-like protein, potassium transporter, catalase, peroxidase, transcription factor DREB, trehalose-6-phosphate synthase, etc. from grass halophytes confirmed the involvement of these genes in imparting tolerance at high salt concentration. The relative expression of NHX gene increased about 107% at 40 dS/m and about 1435% at 50 dS/m. NHX proteins play an important role in the ion homeostasis. Likewise, the relative expression of dehydrin also increased with increase in the salt concentration. Dehydrin protein is major protein expressed in response to drought and salt stress. The higher expression of NHX and dehydrin along with the increase in the salinity level suggested the tolerance ability of these halophytes to salt stress. SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 154 Small animal model for PPR virus: In peste-des- petits ruminants virus (PPRV) of sheep and goat, a laboratory animal was developed as a model to investigate anti-PPRV immunity and immune-pathology. The virus replicated and caused pathogenesis in IFN receptor knockout mice very efficiently but not at all in wild type mice. In addition, recombinant PPRV vaccine virus which has a fluorescent with GFP tag was also successfully generated which can be easily tracked in live cell culture as well as in experimentally infected small animal, even in live animals, because of being fluorescently labeled. To generate this recombinant virus, the complete genome of PPRV Sungri/96 was amplified as four overlapping fragments which was then sequentially linked through SOE-PCR. The ribozyme sequences were added on either end of the genome length cDNA. The integrity of entire genome of this recombinant virus by sequencing in entirety is already confirmed. The virus maintained the same growth kinetics as that of the parent virus. This PPR viral vector generated using this approach will be immensely useful for the development of next generation dual/combined vaccines for other viral, bacterial or parasitic diseases of animals as well. Valorization of soybean and groundnut de-oiled meals/cakes and production of protein isolates: A physical process (based on size reduction and sieving) for removal of impurities (hulls and testa) from groundnut cake was optimized as pulverization in hammer mill. The flour samples passed through 60 BSS sieve contained 40.2% protein and 9.5% crude fibre, which was equivalent to the control cake.