 Secretaries of State Departments, Members of ICAR Governing Body, Senior Officials from ICAR Headquarters and State Departments, Vice-Chancellors of SAUs, Directors and Scientists of ICAR Institutes in the region participate in the meeting, which is chaired by Secretary DARE and DG, ICAR. During the reported period the Council provided financial support to 76 societies for the publication of Scientific Journals. Societies/associations/universities were supported for holding National Seminars/ Symposia/ Conferences (113 Nos) and International Seminars/ Symposia/Conferences (50 Nos). The Umbrella Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) were signed with the Central/State Universities. Besides these 4 Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) were signed with other organization to collaborate research activities of national interest. Awards: The awards were given in 21 different categories to 150 awardees, comprising 101 scientists, 8 administrative personnel (including 2 women), 3 journalists and 20 farmers (including 4 women farmers). It is heartening to note that of the 80 scientists, 13 are women. Three institutes, 1 university, two AICRPs, 12 KVKs were also awarded. Partnership and linkages: Collaborative research projects were signed between ICAR and International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), International Wheat and Maize Research Centre (CIMMYT) and International Centre for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA). MoUs DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 10 OVERVIEW and Workplans for Cooperation in the field of Agricultural Research and Education were signed between ICAR and The State Secretary of Agro-industry of The Ministry of Production and Labour of The Argentine Republic, Western Sydney University and International Bamboo and Rattan Organization (INBAR), PR China for cooperation in Agricultural Research and Education. Work Plans between Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and WorldFish (WFC) and International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI) were also signed. Agrinnovate: Agrinnovate India Limited (AgIn) was established to enable solutions and capabilities in agricultural technology sector put to maximum use by successfully transferring research applications and innovations for large scale utilisation by private firms and farmers. AgIn is steadily moving towards meeting its objectives and building ‘A world of Innovative Partnerships’. AgIn commercialized 15 ICAR technologies in 2018–19 and has already commercialized more than 20 technologies till December 2019 with a revenue realisation of around ` 75 lakh. The ABIs (50) facilitated the business environment in the ICAR institutes. Supporting basic and strategic research: The NASF funded 79 projects, mostly in the consortium mode during 2018-19.To identify QTLs and superior genotypes for water use efficiency in wheat, a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population was phenotyped under normal and drought stress conditions.