 In this connection it is clarified that the date of effect of assessment benefits for employees completing 5 years of service on 31.12.1994 will be 1.1.1995. Yours faithfully, Sd/- (K.K. Bajpai) Deputy Secretary (B) ICAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES No.14(3)/94-Estt IV Dated 1 February 1995 To Subject: Sir, The Directors/Project Dirt'ctors/Zonal Co-ordinators of !CAR Research Institutes /Project Directorates/National Research Centres/Zonal Co-ordinating Units Removal of Category Bar Between Cat.I and Cat. II. The qu<:stion of removal of category bar between Cat. I and Cat.II has been under consideration of the Council for the past some time. It has been decided with the approval of the Governing Body to remove the category bar between Cat.I and Cat.II in the following manner. (i) The existing employees at level T-1-3 who possess qualifications prescribed for entry to Cat.U by direct recruitment will be placed in grade T-U-3 of the Cat. II with effect from I.I. 1995. The employees who do not possess such qualifications will in the event of improving their qualifications and acquiring degree/diploma/any other qualification prescribed for entry in Cal.II by direct recruitment will be placed ln grade T-11-3 from the I January of the year following the year in which degree/diploma/ certificate is awarded. For subsequent merit promotion from grade T-ll-3 to T-4 the service rendered in T-1-3 grade will be counted towards compmation of five years of service for merit promotion. ( ii) The employees with five years of service in grade T-2 and possessing qualifications prescribed for entry co Cat.II by direct recruitment, in the event of merit promotion rhrough five yearly assessment in terms of Rule 6.2 will be placed in the grade T-11-3. (iii) The employees with five years of service in grade T-2 and not possessing qualifications prescribed for entry to Cat.Ii by direct recruitment will be placed in grade T-1-3 in the event of merit promotion through Five Yearly Assessment. Such employees in the event of improving their qualification and acquiring degree/diploma/any 01her qualificlatio11 prescribed for entry in Cat.II by direct recruitment will in case of merit promotion be placed in grade T-11-3 from I IC-AR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES January of the year following the year in which degree/ diploma/certificate is awarded. (iv) Direct Recruitment in grade T-11-3 will be continued to l>e made as in the past. Yours faithfully, Sd/- (K.K. Bajpai) DS(B/ ICAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAi. SERVICES F.No.14(4)/94-Estt IV Dated I February 1995 NOTIFICATION In exercise ofthe powers conferred under Bye Law 23 ofthe lCAR Society, the Governing Body with the approval of the President, /CAR, has made following amendments in 1he Rule 6.4 of Technical Service Rules.