 Three hybrids gave a tuber yield of above 40 tonnes/ha, during 3 consecutive years. The NPK fertilizer dose of 75 : 37.5 : 75 kg/ha is sufficient for cassava in continuously fertilized ultisols. Indigenous rockphosphate can be used as an alternate source of phosphorus in place of superphosphate. Zinc @ 1 g/plant enabled recovery from deficiency symptoms and helped an increase in yield. Application of wood ash to soil @ 3 tonnes/ha is beneficial to reduce the cyanogenic glucosides as well as to increase the starch content in cassava. Cassava genotypes, CE 111, CE 534 and CE 273, gave higher extractable starch (200–250 g/plant) under drought conditions. On-farm trials on arrowroot showed that planting at a spacing of 30 cm ×15 cm on raised beds, mulching with locally available plant material and application of NPK @ 50 : 25 : 75 kg/ha increased the yield by 40% over the existing farmers’ practice. Growing of intercrops such as maize, sorghum and red gram either by normal planting or paired row planting of Dioscorea increased the yield of Dioscorea significantly compared to its sole crop. Among intercrops, maize was best both under normal as well as paired-row system. Technique for production of antiserum of Indian Cassava Virus (ICMV) was refined with sucrose density gradient method and dialysis techniques. The method yielded higher titre values of purified preparations and high virus concentrations. Nucleic acid spot hybridization results showed strong signals with susceptible varieties, while meristem derived plants had no signals. Replicative forms of ICMV DNA isolated and replicase gene (1.1 kb) was amplified and cloned in pGEM-T vector and confirmed by sequencing. The pathogen causing tuber rot in cassava was identified on Phytophthora palmivora. The incidence ranged from 20 to 38% causing crop losses up to 47.4%. Two biotypes of whitefly, cassava biotype and sweet potato biotype, were identified. Both had distinctly different electrophoretic patterns of esterase isozymes. Cassava biotype only transmitted ICMV. A rapid screening method using cell-wall glucan elicitors isolated from Phytophthora colocasiae was developed for in-vitro screening of taro genotypes for leaf blight. Use of disease-free seed tubers and 2 sprayings with Mancozeb (0.2%) and Monocrotophos (0.05%) 30 and 60 days after planting effectively controlled mosaic, collar rot and leaf blight diseases of Amorphophallus. Electroantennogram response of Araecerus fasciculatus (cassava chips borer) to whole body washes and certain HPLC fractions showed the evidence of aggregation pheromone. Extract of seeds, leaves and rinds of cassava and seeds of yam bean, in organic solvents were highly toxic to many storage and fields pests. The mortality of Sitophilus oryzae was 100% when exposed to cassava tuber rind extract at 50% concentration. High mortality was also noticed due to the fumigant action of cassava seed extract on storage pests.