 PIM can be defined as the involvement of the irrigation users in all aspects of irrigation management (planning, operation and maintenance, financing, decision, rules, and monitoring and evaluation) and at all levels (the primary, secondary, and tertiary levels) [169]. PIM is internationally well known as a principle management concept that reforms the agricultural water sector and transfers irrigation management to farmers. Worldwide PIM policies draw on economic liberalization and the privatization of services, emphasizing decentralizing irrigation management responsibilities to local governments and user-based associations [170]. In addition, water user associations, local multipurpose development authorities, prepaid metering systems, and smart cards (see Figure 8) are some of the main components of PIM. These components are essential in promoting agriculture water reform at the community level and help create an efficient and equitable policy environment for farmers’ water use [171]. A study by Zaman [169] reported that the prepaid metering system provides every farmer with a user card containing the user’s photo ID, name, and ID number). The card is loaded with credit by paying cash at any government office or to an accredited dealer. The card is then inserted in a slot at the pump station, and water is pumped automatically with the charge levied against the credit on the card. Welsien and Lazar [172] said pre-paid water meter technology could help increase water access by reducing lost revenue and receiving excess water. The technology is simple and user-friendly, and there are several global manufacturers, including Lorentz, eWATERservices, Grundfos, and Nairobi-based Maji Milele (using SUSTEQ); all of these manufacturers are proposing several easy-to-use instruments for efficient water management. Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 23 of 40 Figure 8. Water meters. Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 25 of 40 Table 2. Studies recommending, proposing, and validating the different smart tools for monitoring and supplying irrigation water to crops for enhancing crop yield, WUE, and environmental footprints. Object Tool Compared Data Outcome SW data management system [173]. AI and BD MS WD The system provided significant results (R2 = 0.96 and RMSE= 0.04) and offered diverse services such as visualization and analysis of meteorological data and weather time series forecasts. Climate data perdition with smart tool [174]. Eight ANN models Eight GEP WD ANN models provide significant results (R2 = 97.6–99.8% and RMSE = 0.20 to 2.95 mm d−1) and GEP models performed slightly worse than the ANN models. SW station [175]. IoT MS WD The system successfully executed and fetched data accurately with an accuracy of 95%. The system is pocket-friendly and very easy to use and set up. Smart irrigation system based on weather data [176]. WSN N.