 In combined examination for ARS (preliminary) 2016 and NET 2017(I), 21,740 candidates registered for the examination and 2,563 (16%) candidates qualified. A total of 42,937 candidates registered for NET (I)- 2017 examination; and 6,987 candidates (22.45%) have been qualified in this. Training and capacity building: The ICAR is pursuing the systematic approach to training and capacity building of all categories of employees. The complete training details of Scientists, Technical, Administrative staff and SSS are now available in the system. Identified and updated 136 training need areas for Scientists, 56 for Technical, 39 for Administrative and 31 for Skilled Supporting Staff during 2016-17. For the first time, training programmes on Enhancing Efficiency and Behavioural Skills, Automobile maintenance, Road Safety and Behavioral Skills were organized. During the reported period, 4,391 employees were trained, about 23.4 % of the total employees in ICAR. I hope that the report would be useful for policy- makers, planners, development-agencies, researchers, farmers and students alike. It will go a long way in making Indian agriculture a profitable venture and attract youths in adopting agriculture as their profession. (T Mohapatra) Secretary Department of Agricultural Research and Education and Director General Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi 2. Soil and Water Productivity Agro-ecological Region (AER) map updated: Agro-ecological Regions Atlas of India prepared in 1992, was updated by the National Bureau of Soil Survey and Land Use Planning (NBSS&LUP) based on length of growing period (LGP) information for over 450 locations, soil and climate, information at finer scale, geographical and biodiversity data, and ecological and land use information. The New Atlas is useful for drawing up integrated land use plans for sustained and increased ecologically sensitive, and environmentally safe agricultural production systems. Potential crop zones delineated: Area/region- specific efficient and remunerative crops and cropping sequences were delineated based on soils, landforms, rainfall, temperature, length of growing period and irrigability. Potential crop zoning involves development of land management units (LMUs), bio-physical suitability evaluation and linking of bio-physical suitable maps to the relative spread and productivity of reference crops and cropping sequences. The soil and site suitability evaluation maps were developed for paddy, rubber and spices cultivation in Kerala, and rice, sugarcane, groundnut and cotton in Tamil Nadu.