 While exploring the role of Public Distribution System (PDS) in improving access to nutritive food at affordable prices, the researchers will try to understand the households’ preference for commodities to be included in the PDS basket of goods and their preferred mode of transfer (cash, kind or vouchers). A second piece of research in TARINA is trying to map the value chain of high- value nutritive commodities in the project sites. The IFPRI SAO will also examine the impact of change in market regulations on farmers’ returns from growing cash crops and households’ access to nutrition rich food items. The focus will be on the impact of abolition of APMC Act in Bihar and changes in this act in Odisha and UP. Under the Sustainable and Resilient Farming System Initiative (SRFSI) project, the researchers will continue carrying out comparative studies in eastern Gangetic plain, with more emphasis in Bihar, West Bengal, Bangladesh and Nepal Teraii along with focussing on identifying best practices in each state or country that others can learn from to improve their own ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 49 policies. Led by IFPRI’s EPTD division, the focus will be on assessment of risks and options for decision-making along the water-energy-food nexus in the EGP. Our frequent interactions with the policy makers over the last year on issues related to pulse have given us a better sense of important policy questions where more research and better evidence is needed. Accordingly, in 2017, our pulse research will focus on a) understanding pulse seed value-chains to make them more efficient; b) estimating the monetary value of environmental services provided by pulse cultivation and c) improving our understanding of emerging patterns in demand for pulses in India, including demand for processing pulses for rising snacks consumption. Understanding the threat posed by climate change to the food and nutritional security is evident, IFPRI- SAO aims to study the plausible penetration of climate-smart technologies and practices in the region with an eye towards understanding the patterns of adoption and dis-adoption of climate smart agriculture (CSA). We will develop policy proposals and program outlines for an efficient and sustainable adoption of CSA in South Asia. Under the ICAR and Government of India collaboration, IFPRI SAO will focus on (i) Estimating returns to agricultural research investment and mapping adoption of improved technologies. (ii) Strategies to enhance pulse production and stabilize their prices. (iii) Developing transparent performance indicators for KVKs. (iv) Developing mechanisms to implement innovative institutional arrangements (such as e-NAM, farmer Producer Organization and PMFBY) and assess their impact on smallholders. The on-going USAID project on Policy Reform Initiative Program (PRIP) in Nepal aims to bring policy reforms through credible empirical analysis, capacity development activities and policy advocacy.