 Traditional knowledge systems help farmers to manage natural resources, conserve biodiversity, and adjust to changing climates. Traditional agricultural practices may include crop rotation, intercropping, agroforestry, and organic inputs to increase the productivity, soil fertility, and insect control. These practices, align with sustainable agriculture, help in prioritizing land and biodiversity management, and people health also. Such practices have been multiplied and used in conserving numerous crop and animal landraces that are well-adapted to the local communities’ biophysical and socio-economic milieus. These bio-resources are vital for food security in a changing climate of not only India, but also for South Asia, Africa and other similar regions in the world. It has been recognized that agricultural systems being conserved by these approaches are found to be more resilient. In risk prone agroecosystems, conservation of natural resources is pursed at two levels, i.e. individual and community scales. At individual level, farmers may apply either their own creativity alone or sometime use only scientific knowledge; while third condition may also arise when farmers can blend both the knowledge systems to get rid of livelihood risks. Such practices are in vogue among farmers of many Asian and African countries. Examples may span from cropping system to animal husbandry (pastoral system management) and agroforestry systems. Lessons learned on cropping and agroforestry system management, attributed with local landraces and perennial trees suggest that these have been adapted to sustainably manage land and water resources with least external use of resources. Simultaneously, such management system has enhanced conservation of local biodiversity and ensured food security of local communities. Such grassroots insights suggest that using diversity, integration, and sustainability, local crop and agroforestry practice help in achieving the environmental conservation, climate resilience, and livelihood resilience of the agrarian community. Thus, multiple outcomes of agricultural sustainability are ensured in view of the United Nations SDGs. Scientific knowledge system: Scientific and technological advances provide evidence-based solutions, improve resource efficiency, and meet new issues to promote sustainable agriculture. In recent past, a significant amount of work and progress has been achieved in the area of sustainable agriculture. These efforts have led to develop a number of replicable sustainable agricultural practices (Table 1) which have potential to be used in many developing countries where the environmental challenges and agricultural sustainability are major concern. Now the question arise how best such sustainable agricultural practices are articulated with the scientific knowledge system, institutional and extension services so as to maximize their reach among the farmers.