 Keywords: eye infection, batasa For the treatment of eye infection in animals, 5-10 g salt and water are taken in mouth and are mixed. After mixing the solution is spitted in the animal's eyes. This practice is followed in village Khiraka of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: eye infection, salt, water About 2-3 g salt is mixed in water and applied on the infected eyes of the animal in morning time. It is found to be effective to cure all types of eye infections and is followed by the people of village Bichuria in Uttar Pradesh Keywords: eye infection, salt, animal In this practice, two lai jabori (Drimia indicd) plants are taken, crushed and juice is extracted from them. The juice extract is applied on the affected eyes of the goat, thrice daily, till recovery. Keywords: lai jabori, juice, goat corneal opacity A paste is prepared by grinding 100 g perumpillai (Aerva persica) leaves, and 5 g pepper powder (Piper nigrum). This paste is taken in a piece of white muslin cloth and squeezed slowly on the eyes. Suggested dose for 1 eye is 3-5 drops for 2 days, which gives relief to the cattle from sore eye. Keywords: sore eye, perumpillai, pepper powder Shri Tota Ram, S/o Shri Mulchand, Sundyaba, Haphijganj, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Rajeshwar Singh, S/o Shri Ganen Lai, Khiraka, Auadh, and Sh. Rajendra Maheshpur (Shiv Singh) dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Md. Noor Ahmed, S/o Shri Md. Lai Mohamed, Bichuria, Balia, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Bodon Bora, Silsako, North Guwahati, Guwahati dist. Kamrup (Assam) 781 039 Shri P. Vellikkannu, S/o. Shri Pichan, Melvalapadi, Vadakananthal, Sankarankoil, Villupuram (Tamil Nadu) 606 207 Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3210 Treatment for conjunctivitis in animals by using a mixture of butter and pulse flour 3211 Eye treatment of animals with mustard oil 3212 Treatment of eyes in animals with sirsa leaves 3213 Extract of fog (Calygonum polygonoides) leaves as treatment for aankh mein phoola (cornea opacity) in animals 3214 Smoke of camel bone—an effective remedy for mastitis in animals Due to conjunctivitis, animals' eyes become red, and mud-like excreta is secreted from the eyes. The affected animal feels uneasiness due to pain. To cure it, cattle owners of Alwar district in Rajasthan mix 250 g butter with 400 g pulse flour and feed it to the cattle. In addition, some farmers wash the eyes with water mixed with lemon juice. Keywords: conjunctivitis, eye, butter pulse flour, lemon The people of village Khata of block Rithoura in Uttar Pradesh use mustard oil for the treatment of eyes in animals. In this treatment, 100 g mustard oil is applied on lower part of horn. The animals' eyes are cured.