 Ragi blast symptoms are extremely comparable to rice blast symptoms. It can attack plants at any stage of development, from seedlings to ear heads. It is both seed and air- borne. If the seeds used for sowing are contaminated, seedling death is widespread in nurseries and failure also occurs in crops that are directly seeded. Leaf blast: The lesions or spots on leaves initially appear as small bluish-brown flecks, then progress to become elliptical or diamond or spindle-shaped, pointed at both ends, about 0.5–1.0 cm wide and about 1–3 mm in diameter, greenish- green centre, often with grey, yellowish or brownish margins of chlorotic halo, but later the central Indian Farming 10 April 2023 portion turns whitish and gradually disintegrate. On younger leaves, they grow up to several centimetres long and 1.0 cm wide while remaining round on older leaves. As the lesion progresses, the core area takes on a water-soaked appearance and turns light green or dull greyish green. Changes in environmental circumstances as well as varietal response affect the form, size, and colour of the lesions. A susceptible cultivar may develop a number of greyish spots that, in favourable conditions, become larger, broader, and combine, causing the entire leaf to wither. Older leaves develop a greyish or nearly straw- coloured centre. The leaf sheath also develops similar symptoms. The grey fungal growth consisting of the conidiophores and the conidia, especially on the upper surfaces of the leaves, may cover the centre areas of lesions when the environment is humid. The lesions are discrete in the early stages of the infection but frequently merge fast and cover large regions. The farthest parts of the leaves beyond the lesions might dry up, break and fall off. When young, healthy seedlings get infected, their leaves have a burned appearance owing to severe leaf blight and eventually die. Along with decreasing the yield, it also negatively affects the quality of the grain and the biomass of the plant, making the leaves unfit for use as animal feed. Neck blast: The pathogen damages the culms, particularly at the nodal region, causing that area to become blackened. Symptoms of blast disease on the neck appear as elongated, initially brown, then black lesions, which are most frequently visible 1–2 inches below the ear and rupture at the infected location where sporulating fungus can be seen. The neck infection stage is the most devastating which can result in significant losses in grain quantity and weight, and cause an increase in spikelet sterility. The infected plants may be clearly identified by the blackish patch on the neck area. The grains are not filled and the panicle stays upright if the infection starts well before the development of the grains. If the infection occurs after some grains have developed, the panicle hangs down. However, the ear often breaks and falls off because of the necrosis of the neck tissues.