 I-Amul Society, Mr Yagnik School, (opp. Railway Station), Nenpur, Mahemdabad, dist. Kheda (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation. Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2921 Use of mussal to dehusk paddy 2922 Tamarind harvester and seed separator madeup of wood, it was broken after some time. In 2001 again he revived his idea and started making thresher for paddy by using some of the components of conventional thresher and scrape iron material. After hard work of about a year, he finally developed a working model of machine that can be used for separating the seeds from straw. Basic structure of machine: (i) big-size roller (about 4 feet); (ii) cleaner; (iii) fan for sucking and winnowing; and (iv) shafting, belt and pulley mechanism. It threshes 60 to 70 bunches/hr. The paddy thresher available in the market (Jasoda Agro, Sojitra) costs Rs 63,000. Keywords: threshing, paddy, stalk, wooden Mussal is a farm implement madeup of stone to dehusk paddy. It costs Rs 300. Key words: mussal, dehusk, paddy Tamarind harvester, a novel implement was developed by Shri A. I. Nadakattin. It has hundreds of iron chains hanging from a rod, carried on a trolley of the tractor. When tamarind is ready for harvest, the tractor trolley is taken through the rows and the chain is kept loose whereby tamarind falls into the trolley. Due to the chain strokes, the tree is damaged but grows again. Tamarind seed separator is useful in isolating the pulp for various preparations. Developed in 1994, it is connected to a tractor or an oil engine for enhancing its efficiency. In this machine, tamarind is thrown out of the pod due to the sliding action of pegs. The machine works on destining method and saves both time and labour. The seed separator machine costs Rs 3 lakhs. Shri Sanjay Anant Patil, Savaiverem, Ponda, North Goa (Goa) 403 401 Shri A. I. Nadakattin, Vishwa- Shanti Farm House, village Anigeri, taluka Navalgunda, dist. Dharwad (Karnataka) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content FARM IMPLEMENTS Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2923 Modified oil-extraction machine Keywords: tamarind, harvester, seed separator, chain, pulp, pegs Swastik oil extraction machine is a state-of-art oil-expelling machine developed by Shri Kalpesh Gajjar of Mehsana (Gujarat) to provide oil millers the highest efficiency in a compact shape.