 The microsatellite primers of the camel are being screened using a panel of samples from single humped camels (Jaisalmeri, Bikaneri and Kutchi) and double-humped camels. The selected microsatellite primers shall be used to characterize various camel breeds. The Tarai and Bhadawari buffaloes, Chegu and Black Bengal goats, and Pugal and Garole sheep breeds are also being characterized using microsatellite primers. In poultry data generated for 26 microsatellite were used for diversity analysis. Enumeration was completed for Aseel, Miri and Nicobari. The data were analyzed for these populations to test if the populations are in Hardy Weinberg Equilibrium (HWE) with respect to the 26 loci, by using chi square test, likelihood ratio (G2) and exact test. The data were analyzed on two basis i.e. (i) taking all the genotypes from the sample and (ii) pooling the genotype into three categories—homozygote of the most frequently occurring allel, heterozygote of the most frequently occurring allele, and all other alleles clubbed together (which were less frequently occurring). The clubbing of the data was done keeping in view that all the genotypes would not be available in the sample. Chi-square test, revealed that 10 microsatellite loci were deviating from HW equilibrium at 1% level of significance in Nicobari, 5 in Miri, and 7 in Aseel. The deviation from HWE was for 7, 2 and 4 loci for Nicobari, Miri and Aseel, respectively, when data were analyzed for likelihood ratio, G2 test and pooled genotypes. Chi-square and G2 were significant for pooled genotypes for 7 loci in Nicobari, 2 loci in Miri and 2 loci in Aseel genotype. All the microsatellite loci are polymorphic in their nature. The PIC values for ADL-176 ranged between 0.5046 for MCW2 to 0.8755 for the entire dataset. Three alleles for MCW3 and 10 for ADL-176 and ADL-34 were observed. PRESERVATION OF SOMATIC CELL LINES OF SHEEP AND GOAT At the NBAGR, Karnal, 24 skin samples from Jaisalmeri sheep and 25 from Parbatsari goats were collected and analyzed. Primary cultures of fibroblast cells from ear pinna of sheep and goats were developed. The cells were re-seeded. The cell survival rate and cell count in each passage were studied. Chromosomal profile of cells was studied after an interval of 3 passages. The representative sample from each passage was cryofreezed at – 25°C. The cryofrozen samples were thawed at 39°C and re-seeded in the tissue culture flask to study the cell proliferation rates, and format for database of cryopreserved germplasm was prepared. At the IVRI, Izatnagar, fibroblast cells from skin of goat could be successfully cultured for use in embryo cloning. Standardization of enucleation, reconstruction and electrofusion of goat oocytes was achieved. LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 93 Exact test for HW equilibrium: The exact test was performed using Fischer’s exact test for smaller contingency tables. The method was applied using Markov chain Monte Carlo method.