 • KMP175, a superior rice cultivar developed as an outcome of the physiological breeding programme combining root and WUE traits has been released for cultivation in water limited southern dry zone-6 of Karnataka state from the centre at UAS, Bengaluru. AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 102 • The centres organized 164 long (>10 days) and short (2-10 days) duration training programmes/ awareness workshops/camps leading to capacity building of 908 faculty and 368 students. About 3,648 farmers and 2502 other stakeholders viz. extension workers, veterinary officers of State Animal Husbandry Departments were imparted knowledge for adopting the technologies generated through farmers meet/ demonstrations and workshops. During the year 69 students completed degrees and 120 students are pursuing research for MSc/MVSc/MTech/ Ph.D utilizing the facilities developed under NAE programmes.The support has resulted in 55 publications in peer reviewed journals, including 29 papers in journals assigned NAAS rating of 5 and above. As a result of the workshops and awareness camps conducted under the programme some of the trainees took up entrepreneurship. Fifteen people in fabrication of machines/tools, and 8 in beekeeping and other pollinizers for pollination of apple orchards. Eight patent applications have been filed and the revenue of ` 44.44 lakh was generated during the year. Total of eight technologies have been commercialized, including formalin detection kit for fish, OMP vaccine, vaccine for Newcastle disease, biosensors for diagnosis of PPR etc. Entrepreneurship Development Support was extended for starting experiential learning modules under ‘Student READY’ program to instil confidence, provide hands on training and to encourage UG students to take up entrepreneurship. Skill oriented training to the undergraduate students is being imparted to promote entrepreneurship, knowledge as well as marketing skills through practical end–to-end approach in product development. Twelve new modules were established during the year in 8AUs.New modules were supported in various profitable areas, like fish processing for value addition, protected cultivation of high value horticultural crops, goat rearing units, bioagents, biopesticide and biofertilizer production, and quality seed production etc. The salient outcomes were: • Students were sensitized about maintaining micro irrigation facilities. • Operation and maintenance of the processing plants imparted knowledge on production of value added products and insights into post harvest techniques. • Trainings have been imparted for effective management of insect pests and production of Trichogramma. • ELP on seed production helped students acquire experience on hybrid seed production in various crops, including guava layers, rice sweet corn, soyabean etc.