 It is proposed that the requirement of funds in respect of eight ZPDs and KVKs (Salary, Travelling Allowance (TA), contingencies, HRD etc.) established till the end of X Plan, i.e. those in existence for more than five years be, as a policy decision, allowed to be included under Non-Plan from the beginning of XII Plan period during the XII Plan under Non-Plan budget. (ii) Additional scientific positions in each KVK based on its increased work load As of today, each KVK has a total staff strength of sixteen which includes a Programme Coordinator, six Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs), three Programme Assistants and six Supporting Staff. With the passage of time, the work load of KVKs has increased manifold. Keeping in view the emerging challenges and additional programmes to be initiated now, the Committee is convinced that four additional scientific positions in each KVK are fully justified. Therefore, it is proposed that at least ten positions of SMS be provided in each KVK to do proper justice to the work load and also to meet the aspirations of our farming community. It is also observed by the Committee that the Programme Coordinator, who has to monitor and supervise other staff and have regular meetings with Heads of the Line Departments, including. Deputy Commissioner/District Collector/District Magistrate etc., who are invariably Class I Officers, the rank of Programme Coordinator be elevated to that of Professor level. This is fully justified in the best interest of efficient functioning of KVKs. The copy of letter written in this regard is annexed in Annexure-IV. Chapter - 4 Recommendations 8 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK In addition to the above, Committee examined the current situation relating to the staff position and their designation and has come out with the following suggestions: (a) Strengthening of manpower at AED In view of the enhanced activities and large network of KVKs, and additional scheme, provision of additional manpower in AED has become essential for effective monitoring and coordination. After considerable deliberations and review of existing manpower, the Committee recommends the following staffing pattern at head quarters: Sl. Cadre No. of posts Major responsibilities No. Existing Proposed 1 Deputy Director General 1 1 Overall supervision, coordination and monitoring of KVK system. 2 Assistant Directors General 2 3 Three Assistant Directors General to act as branch officers for three sub regions consisting of different zonal programmes. Their major responsibilities include; – Assist the Deputy Director General in formulating, implementing and monitoring policy guidelines and strategies related to KVK system. – Deal with all matters pertaining to KVKs including linkage with SAUs/CAU, State Governments, NGOs and ICAR Institutes, and – Prepare various technical reports, materials, replies for Regional Committees, EFC/SFC, GB/AGM and Parliament questions/matters.