 Promotion of balanced use of chemical fertilizers and liquid fertilizers, judicious use of chemical pesticides, fertigaion. iii. Promotion of drip irrigation, protected cultivation, poly tunnel for nursery raising of vegetable crops, canopy management, rejuvenation of old and senile orchards etc. iv. Production and supply of quality planting material and seed – hybrid and HYVs; development of seed banks/stores. v. Seed Management and Seed Replacement Rate (SRR); to sustain continuous growth in productivity, seed management plays a vital role. vi. Focus on manure and bio-fertilizers; fertigation etc. to increase efficiency of fertilizers. vii. Water management in both irrigated and rainfed areas which includes: Water harvesting (rainfall, runoff, roof top water etc.), rejuvenation of traditional water bodies, augmentation State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 214 of water storage structures, micro-irrigation, fertigation etc to enhance water use efficiency; Creation of additional water storage low hills for lean season; Promotion of water conservation techniques like mulch, sprinkler and drip in juvenile plants in low or valley areas. viii. Mechanization for increasing farm efficiency - by providing prototypes, subsidizing and developing custom hiring centers. Farm mechanization in Jammu & Kashmir is limited to operations like ploughing etc. ix. Promotion of Integrated Farming System (IFS); viz poultry + livestock + horticulture + Composting + or horticulture + fisheries + dairy + Composting + Protected cultivation etc Horticulture i. Crop diversification and value addition: high value crops like mango, guava, olive, strawberry etc, niche specific cropping, floriculture, medicinal & aromatic plants. Diversification towards these high value and labour intensive commodities can provide adequate income and employment to the farmers dependent on small size of farms. Due importance should be given to quality and nutritional aspects. ii. Intensive cultivation e.g. High Density Plantation (HDP), intercropping, multiple cropping etc. iii. Production of quality planting material, bud-wood and rootstocks for high density planting. iv. Canopy management and plant architectural engineering v. Hi tech horticulture for nutritional security, breeding for health traits, high altitude research, value added plant propagation, providing soil health cards. vi. Rejuvenation and revival of old and senile orchards and revival of traditional apple variety Ambri through breeding, selection and orchard management. vii. Modernization and establishment of hi-tech nurseries with facilities of virus indexing, bud wood/root stock banks etc viii. Creation of irrigation network/systems through CSS like PMKSY, establishment of microirrigation models,, augmentation of irrigation assets over 65% land area that is at the mercy of monsoon and sporadic rainfall. ix.