 It helps in predicting draining characteristics such as moisture ratio which gives better understanding the process of moisture removal from chakka. The developed equipment would be suitable for small-entrepreneurs for the production of chakka and fulfils the requirement of time saving and hygienic production. Anti-fouling plate heat exchanger for milk processing: A study was undertaken at ICAR-NDRI to alter the surface properties of the plates of PHE by applying non-sticky coating of nanomaterials to mitigate the fouling deposition during heat treatment of milk. The heat transfer coefficients for uncoated surface decreased continuously with the processing time, after an initial induction period, whereas those of the coated surface were almost constant. K degradation behaviours of crop residues can be studied under different levels of vacuum and plasma intensity in different environment. The generation of free and charged radicals in plasma under different levels of vacuum with different type of gases is the one of important functionalities of system. This R&D facility is very important to study the influence of free and charged plasma on biomaterial molecules. Development of low cost farm level milk cooling system: The experimental setup of Farm Milk Cooler (FMC) for 40–80 litres capacity was designed and — Narendra Modi By adopting modern scientiﬁc farming practices, we can boost national economy in a big way. Machines/equipment Green pea depoder machine: The Pisum sativum (commonly known as pea) contributes approximately 2.88% (5,422.14 thousand MT) share of the total vegetable production and 4.6% of the total vegetable producing area in India (NHB 2018). Green pea is used as fresh pod, frozen seed and for preparation of various recipes. The shelling/de-poding of pea seeds from the matured pod is requisite unit operation for its consumption in various forms such as fresh peas, frozen pea, canned pea and in dried pea seed form. The machinery available for de-poding are of large capacity (minimum 1 ton/h) and costly for the marginal farmers and also leads to the damage or splitting of kernel during operation. A small to medium scale green pea de-poding machine was developed at ICAR-CIPHET with capacity of 45–55 kg/h, shelling efficiency of 90–95%, and damage of 2–3%. The better capacity and efficiency of the machine in comparison to manual shelling (3–3.5 kg/h) will help to reduce the human drudgery. The machine is developed to cater the needs of small and medium scale farmers who generally sell their produces in local mandies. These farmers can also establish a small pea processing plant to generate more income and employment. The complete de-poding system costs around ` 1.75–2.0 lakh. conditions may affect the product quality. The developed Primary roasting machine is an indirect batch type conduction heating system. Sun-dried and graded raw makhana seeds can be roasted in the machine conveniently.