 IPM VALIDATION IN PIGEONPEA During 2001–02, an area of 53 acres in IPM and 35 acres in Non-IPM were taken for pigeonpea validation. Interventions in IPM were: 5 pheromone traps, 2 sprays of NSKE, 1 spray of HaNPV and in Non-IPM: 3 sprays of Endosulfan, Monocrotophos, Ashotop (Acephate), Lanate/Dunate, Chlorpyriphos, Rogor and Cypermethrin, along with three times shaking of plants was done in IPM and once in non-IPM. The yield was 1.52 tonnes/ha in IPM and 0.92 tonne/ha in non-IPM. CROP IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 49 45 bee-colonies were placed and lowest (0.38%) fruit-set and fruit weight (16.85 g) were recorded in control. Overcrowding of bees had no adverse effect on fruit-set in litchi. Bee Diseases and Enemies In Kerala, incidence of Thai Sac Brood Virus disease was noticed with varying intensities in different districts. Percentage infestation was more in Thiruvananthapuram (20.80) and least in Kannur. In Punjab, incidence of European Foul Brood on Apis mellifera ranged between 0 and 0.97% in summer, 0 and 9.52% in spring, 0 and 4.0% in winter, 0 and 13.63% in autumn and 0 and 19.23% in monsoon. Incidence of sac brood during different seasons in the state ranged between 0 and 6.81%. Besides, negligible incidence of chalk brood was also noticed. Varroa jacobsoni infected Apis mellifera colonies in Kerala. To control this mite, 60% formic acid proved effective. Bee Management and Hive Products A. mellifera colonies establishment in the Eastern Ghat highland zone of Orissa has been achieved, and attempts are in progress to spread bees in the tribal belts of southern Orissa also. Karl-Jenter method and Dolittle method, using plastic (PVC) queen cell cups and bee-wax queen cell cups, and the effect of position of top and bottom bars of the queen-rearing frames were compared with respect to acceptance of 24-hr larvae grafted for mass-queen rearing. Position of the bar of queen-rearing frame did not affect larval grafting. Maximum larval acceptance of 58.33% was obtained with larval grafting in PVC wax cells. In A. mellifera, brood-rearing activity (2,611.7 cm2) and pollen stores (383.5 cm2) were high in ferocious colonies compared to moderate and mild bee-colonies. During dearth period (monsoon) at Pant Nagar, brood development pattern in 6- frame colony was as good as in 10-frame colony, if timely feeding was given. Among variable quantities of nectar and pollen substitutes, 1,000 g sugar syrup with 5 g sattu would be optimum for proper development of colony to be fed during dearth period at Pusa, Bihar. Pollen trapping at 25% could be safely made without any adverse affect on the colony, but it was adversely affected when trapping was 50% and above. l In Apis mellifera, brood-rearing activity and pollen stores were higher in ferocious bee-colonies than moderate and mild colonies. l Arecanut white-grub could be effectively managed by Chlorpyriphos 10G or Phorate 10G or Carbofuran 10G.