 The hybrid has higher yield of 22-24 tonnes/ha with titrable acidity of 4.7-4.9% and anthocyanin content of 457-467 mg/ 100g as compared to Amlidana. In coconut, Kalpa Shatabdi, a new variety has been developed. This variety, with large fruits, gives high Coconut Kalpa Shatabdi Cocoa hybrid Nethra Centura CROP IMPROVEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 47 A novel method of insect assisted controlled pollination A novel technique was developed for insect facilitated controlled pollination in oil palm. It involves covering the female inflorescence with a pollination bag, securing it at the bottom that no insects or pollen enter from outside the pollination bag, cleaning the pollinating insects and storing in a container, and transferring insects along with pollen of oil palm to reach the bagged inflorescence through a tube. This technique not only reduces the drudgery essentially required to effect the crossing programme, but will also make the pollination activity easier and more efficient. The weevils along with pollen could reach a height of 22 feet in 6 minutes under controlled conditions. Fruit setting is normal. The fruit ratio, seed germination and seedling establishment are on par with manual pollination. This method is novel, risk-free and labour-effective. It opens a new way forward for controlled insect assisted pollination to produce hybrids in plants which can be utilized even in improvement programmes. Vegetable crops: Bacterial wilt on brinjal caused by Ralstonia solanacearum is a serious disease, which limits production from 20 to 50 % in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. A high-yielding brinjal variety, CARI Brinjal 2, is resistant to bacterial wilt giving an yield of 20-25 tonnes/ha has been identified. Its plants are medium tall, semi-spreading type with profuse branching having greenish medium leaves. Fruits are oblong, purple and medium compact. It is suitable for growing in island during October-May. Tomato, Kashi Adarsh, is semi- determinate with 80- 115 g fruit weight and 60 tonnes/ha yield. It is resistant to both monopartite and bipartite viruses. It is suitable for cultivation in Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Kashi Shivani is a high-yielding (180- 200 q/ha) ridge gourd variety with green fruits and 150-200 g fruit weight. Fruits are ready for harvesting at 50-60 days after sowing. This is moderately resistant to downy mildew under field condition. It was released for cultivation in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand. Arka Prasan is an open-pollinated variety, early flowering with first fruit picking in 42-45 days, and yields of 26 tonnes/ha in 120-135 days. Arka Vikram is early-flowering hybrid with first fruit picking in 46 days, yields 34 tonnes/ha in 120-135 days. Two red onion varieties, Bhima Super (for kharif) and Bhima Shakti (for rabi) were recommended. The bulbs of Bhima Super are attractive, red, maturity 100-105 days after transplanting, and yield, 22-26 tonnes/ha.