 As the Indian agriculture is typified as small holders farming, the major burnt of these challenges are faced by this vulnerable class of farmers. The vulnerability of these households to climate change is very high due to diversity and less capacity to purchase the inputs. ICAR through its multifaceted location specific research outfits helped designing and development of new cropping systems for irrigated and rainfed areas, integrated farming systems for different strata of farmers, micro level land use planning, bio-engineering measures for soil and water conservation, reclamation and amelioration technologies for salt affected, waterlogged and acid soils, integrated nutrient management, resource conservation technologies, conjunctive use of rain, surface and groundwater resources, efficient and energy saving irrigation methods, multiple use of water and participatory watershed management including agro-forestry interventions for sustainable natural resource management. These technologies coupled with application of geo-informatics, information and communication technology as well as climate smart agricultural practices may go a long way in managing natural resources vis-a-vis improving land, water and crop productivity. While assessment of climate change impacts on crops, natural resources, livestock and fisheries is a continuing process, the development and deployment of proven resilient technologies are important for adaptation and mitigation. ICAR has moved on this path with the demonstration of CRTs in 151 village clusters one each in the identified climatically vulnerable districts. The appetite for upscaling of the adaptation and mitigation practices evaluated under NICRA has been apparent with the states and other agencies coming forward for upscaling the proven CRTs across the country. Indian Agriculture after Independence 280 References Aggarwal PK, Kalra N, Chander S and Pathak H (2006) InfoCrop: A dynamic simulation model for the assessment of crop yields, losses due to pests, and environmental impact of agro- ecosystems in tropical environments. I. Model description. Agril. Systems 89(1):1-25. Bundela DS, Kaledhonkar MJ, Gupta SK, Kamra SK, Sharma DK, Shrama PC and Chaudhari SK (2017) Guidelines and costs of sub-surface drainage technology for large scale reclamation of waterlogging saline soils. ICAR- Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Haryana, India. Chhonkar PK, Dwivedi BS, Srinivasa Rao Ch, Sahrawat YS and Meena MC (2015) In RB Singh (Ed) 100 Years of Agricultural Sciences in India. NAAS, New Delhi, India, pp. 411- 454. Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) (2009) Shaping Climate-Resilient Development: A Framework for Decision-making, A Report of the Economics of Climate Adaptation Working Group. Climate Works Foundation (CWF), Global Environment Facility (GEF), European Commission (EC), McKinsey & Company (MC), The Rockefeller Foundation (TRF), Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) and Swiss Re (SR). 164 pp.