8-10: Modernization/Strengthening of Livestock Instructional Farms /SAU Farms DUVASU, Mathura, MPPCVV, Jabalpur and CSKHPAU, Palampur emphasised the strengthening of livestock instructional farms/SAU farms in the form of equipment and training facilities to impart training to the veterinary graduates in the management of domestic animals and birds. It was suggested to consider for inclusion in the XII plan. Agenda 5.11: Improving the quality of Agricultural Education VC, APHU presented the agenda that a National level common entrance test for admission into U.G. & P.G. courses at ICAR level, introduction of national level common syllabus for all the courses of UG and PG programmes, introduction of national level evaluation system in UG and PG, and invitation of guest faculty from 8 within the country and abroad and necessary funds may be provided by ICAR. The suggestions were appreciated and suggested to be taken up in the IAUA meeting. [Action: IAUA] Agenda 5.12: A- learning courses to be started at different levels VC, APHU presented the agenda that (a) pre-degree courses in Agriculture and allied sciences, (b) post-graduate diploma courses in Agriculture and allied sciences and (c) non-structured informal training programme to the less educated farming youths and agriculture workforce in the rural areas, may be started. A committee comprising Dr S B Dandin, VC, UHS, Bagalkot and two more VCs was proposed to look into the matter and send a structured note within two month time. [Action: ADG (EQR); VC, UHS, Bagalkot] Agenda 5.13: Agril. Education awareness programme for rural students IGKV, Raipur mentioned that rural and tribal students need to be encouraged to study in Agriculture University. Special orientation programmes are needed for them. The point discussed under agenda 5.6. Agenda 5.14: Problem-Based-Learning (PBL) approach in academic study programmes – focus on learning processes and towards competence of students as needed for their future professional life BCKV, Mohanpur, West Bengal presented the agenda. The point was already discussed under agenda 5.5. Agenda 5.15: Polytechnic in Agriculture and allied sectors to be included in ICAR education policy JAU, Junagadh presented the agenda. It was proposed to discuss the matter in the IAUA meeting and decide what certificate/diploma courses will be required. [Action: IAUA] Agenda 5.16: Participation of Non Government Organization in Educational Up-gradation MAU, Parbhani presented the agenda. The matter has already been taken up in the National Consultation on Higher Agricultural education. Agenda 5.17: E-learning system AAU, Anand presented the agenda. All the VCs were requested to encourage e- learning particularly through the younger faculty members. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 5.18: Increase in credit-load for practical education (Lab/Field work/Industries/Private farms) AAU, Anand presented the agenda. The point is being considered under agenda 5.5. Agenda 5.