 (a) All disputed questions at meetings of the disputed question by Society shall be determined by vote of the vote members present and voting. (b) Each member of the Society shall have one vote. (c) In case of equality of votes the Chairman shall have a casting vote. IX. GOVERNING BODY Members 35. The Governing Body shall have the following mem- bers from amongst the members of the Society :- i) Director-General....Chairman ii) Member, Finance, ill) Secretary, Planning Commission, iv) Secretary, Agriculture, v) Chairman, University Grants Commission. vi) Chairman, Atomic Energy Commission (or Director, Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, if nominated by the Chairman, Atomic Energy Commission). vii) Four Scientists including one Management Expert, who are not employees of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research nominated by the President. viii) Three Vice-Chancellors of Agricultural Universities nominated by the President. v 14 Scope Functions Powers ix) Three Members of Parliament—Two from Lok Sabha and one from Rajya Sabha—nominated by the President. x) Three farmers/representatives of rural areas nominated by the President. xi) Three Directors of Research Institutes of the Council nominated by the President. xii) Secretary, Indian Council of Agricultural Research—Member-Secretary. Note: 1) One of the Secretaries or Additional Secretaries in the Ministry of Finance will be Member, Finance for financial matters concerning the Council. He shall be nominated by the Ministry of Finance, Government of India. 2) The membership of the Governing Body shall be regulated mutatis mutandis in accordance with the provisions of Rules 6 to 11 above. 36. The Governing Body shall generally pursue and carry out the objects of the Society as set forth in the Memorandum of its Association and in doing so shall follow and implement the policy directions and guidelines laid down by the Society. 37. The affairs and funds of the Society shall be managed, administered, directed and controlled, subject to Rules, Bye-laws and orders of the Society, by the Governing Body. 38. (a) The Governing Body shall exercise all executive and financial powers of the Society including those vested in or conferred or to be conferred on it by or under any statute subject nevertheless in respect of expenditure of such limitations as the Government of India from time to time may impose. (b) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, the Governing Body shall have the power, subject to the provisions of these Rules and Bye-laws framed thereunder, to: 1) Consider the annual and supplementary budgets placed before it by the Secretary, from time to time, and pass them with such modifications as may be deemed necessary, 2) establish, maintain, amalgamate and/or close institutions, laboratories, offices and/or hostels, etc..