 The NATP was the first project in NARS to involve competitive funding, and have pluralistic approach to involve and fund partners from outside NARS. NATP successfully completed a whopping total of 852 projects. Under NATP, there was a separate component on Innovations in Technology Dissemination (ITD). As part of ITD, Agricultural Technology Management Agencies (ATMAs) were piloted in 28 districts and Indian Agriculture after Independence 340 44 Agricultural Technology Information Centres (ATICs) were set up in ICAR Institutes and State Agricultural Universities. 2.3. Era of Food Surplus (2000 onwards) At present, India is not only self-sufficient in food production but also and the ‘net exporter of food grains’ and several other commodities. This is a matter of great satisfaction to agricultural research & extension system. But alongside, the new cyclic and structural challenges of Indian agriculture has enlarged. The price discovery and realization is the most crucial cyclic problems and land fragmentation is the biggest structural issue in Indian agriculture today. This calls for enhancing productivity of land, labour and applied inputs, addressing gender and nutritional issues, reducing post-harvest losses and food wastes, attracting rural youth in agriculture with entrepreneurship development and business incubation, and managing the perpetual problem of natural resource degradation and depletion under the realm of escalating abiotic stresses.. While many developmental and research programmes were launched for far reaching impacts, the extension system has also undergone a paradigm shift. The Krishi Vigyan Kendra continued to be the knowledge and resource centre at the district level and playing a crucial role of location specific technology development and technology backstopping for the development departments or field extension system. Other than KVKs the following programmes/projects of both frontline and field extension played important role in technology delivery and dissemination. 2.3.1. Agricultural Technology Information Centre (ATIC) As part of Innovations in Technology Dissemination (ITD) component of NATP, the Agricultural Technology Information Centres (ATIC) were established in the year 2000. These ATICs serve as a single window delivery system for services and products of research for the areas in which the concerned institute is involved. At present, there are 44 ATICs established in ICAR institutes and SAUs. 2.3.2. National Agricultural Innovation Project The National Agricultural Innovation Project (NAIP) was launched in the year 2006 by ICAR. The overall objective of NAIP is to facilitate the accelerated and sustainable transformation of Indian agriculture in support of poverty alleviation and income generation through collaborative development and application of agricultural innovations by the public organizations in partnership with farmers groups, the private sector and other stakeholders. 3.