 Subsequently the discussions were held on innovations and technological interventions for agri-food systems transformation, frontiers in science and technology for achieving food security and nutrition, biofortification in food crops for enhancing nutritional value, tropical seaweed farming for nutrition and blue growth, millets and other ancient grains international research initiative (maharishi), one health as an integrated and unifying approach: partnerships and strategies for coordinated action, transboundary pests and diseases: R and D priorities for resilient agri-food systems, climate resilient technologies and innovations for sustainable agri-food systems, nature-positive agriculture: science and innovations for building resilient agri-food system, biological nitrification inhibition (BNI): reducing GHG emissions and increasing crop yields. Besides these pertinent areas, the delegates Indian Farming 42 June 2023 deliberated on digital agriculture and sustainable agri- value chain, public private partnership in agriculture. India recognizes and appreciated the renewed efforts made by G-20 and other nations/organisations for the digitalisation of agriculture. As the demand for food is set to increase significantly in the decades to come with the rise in population, countries should harness each other’s strengths especially opportunities of making agriculture digital. G20 deliberations focused on how India being one of the largest digital connects in the form of over 1.2 billion mobile connections and 1.20 billion plus unique ID-AADHAR holders, can utilize existing digital agricultural platforms. Digital agriculture was seen as one of the important pillar to achieve G20 Presidency theme ‘One Earth, One Family, One Future’ which signifies collective efforts for achieving SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals). Centre for Agriculture and Bioscience International (CABI)’s expertise in digital development in bringing science-based agricultural knowledge to millions of smallholder farmers, helping them to increase their yields, was also showcased. ‘Digital Agriculture: Digital Farm Advisory– Opportunities and Challenges.’ This highlighted the value of public and private-sector extension services and how mobile phone and internet technologies can help give the best advice to farmers– helping them maximise productivity and profits. So far, CABI has identified 830 agricultural digital tools–636 Android apps, 50 Apple apps and 144 websites–all of which have been collated within the Crop App Index which was launched in February 2022. SUMMARY Agriculture faces several challenges, especially in developing countries due to deficiencies in infrastructure in rural areas. Access, efficiency and affordability of agricultural information continue to be the major impediments for raising agricultural productivity among smallholders in the developing countries.