 Zinc nutrient through seed coating (1-7 g Zn/kg seed) had positive and marked effect on both blackgram and greengram especially under lower levels. Moreover, seed coating beyond 5.0 g Zn/kg seed in greengram and 6.0 g Zn/kg seed in blackgram showed toxicity symptoms at germination stage. Further, seed coating with zinc oxide was superior over zinc sulphate. Synergy of conservation tillage and sprinkler irrigation in lentil: Productivity of lentil could be sustained with one supplementary sprinkler irrigation at pod initiation stage if sown under zero tillage (with higher soil moisture) and was confirmed from higher crop growth, biomass and grain yield over flood irrigation. The study confirmed that significantly higher grain (10.8%) and biomass yield (17.8%), net return (13.1%), BCR (9.3%) and PPD (productivity per day, 11.3%) were in sprinkler irrigation provided only at podding over that in branching alone. A similar and significant increase in water saving (23.2%), WUE (26.1%) and WP (27.2%) with sprinkler at podding was evident from the yield level (1.84-1.87 tonnes/ ha) than that in flood irrigation. The study also suggested important role of appropriate rainfall forecast and the quantum of precipitation received for appropriate irrigation scheduling decision(s) in lentil. Enhancing residue use efficiency (RUE) in soybean/pigeonpea based cropping system in central India: Significantly higher productivity was realized DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 55 CROP MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 56 under broad bed furrow (BBF) over flat planting. Single supplementary irrigation to lentil due to scanty rainfall and/or its uneven distribution could enhance RUE over the rainfed crop. Thus to enable soybean-pulse system (soyben + pigeonpea - lentil) sustainable through inter/ multiple cropping, the suggested strategies are- (i) Sowing of short duration pigeonpea with soybean by mid-June or June (possible with 1st few pre-monsoon showers of rain); (ii) Switching to more appropriate pigeonpea variety (TJT 501, TT 401, JKM 189 and other short duration varieties); (iii) Managing crop optimally under rainfed condition (with restricted crop growth and dry matter) on BBFs; (iv) Relatively narrow spacing for pigeonpea (a row spacing of 50- 70 cm); (v) Planting of rabi pulses (lentil) by 1st week of December under residual moisture so as to avoid yield loss as a result of delayed sowing; and (vi) Provision of a supplementary irrigation, if possible during rabi for realization of higher yield in case of rain fails. Productivity evaluation of soybean-wheat crop rotation under long-term fertility management: The analysis of grain yield data after 43 years of experimentation under rainfed soybean-wheat system confirmed that only the FYM treated plot provided an increase in the wheat equivalent grain yield than the first year (1973-74).