 Key takeaways The agri-food systems approach offers a novel opportunity to advance particularly in the areas linked to SDGs for sustainable agriculture, management of natural resources, gender and equity. Mapping of smallholders, while recognising their scope, range and linkages in the agrifood, would help achieving targets of the Sustainable Development Goals. 36 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series INDIAN AGRICULTURE IN PERSPECTIVE Mangala Rai Recalling spectacular agricultural achieve- ments in independent India, he indicated the need for introspection at the time of celebration, to move forward further. He recalled the year 1947, when the first Prime Minister of independent India, laid emphasis that “Everything else can wait but not Agriculture” and in 1948, Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, stated that bread is the GOD for the hungry. Agriculture presently has led to self- sufficiency in food and increased life expectancy. After independence, there has been 6 times increase in foodgrains production, 10 times increase in milk, meat, fruits and vegetables production, 15 times increase in fish production and 50 times increase in egg production. From 1950 to 2019, tremendous increase of 1900 per cent was observed in milk production despite only 34 per cent increase in livestock population; this was through technological innovations, cattle management, health-care and nutrition management. Globally, recalling the problems of agriculture which is primarily natural resource based, he mentioned that 80 per cent of the natural resources are accessed only by 20 per cent of people and the richest 1 per cent have 40 per cent of the natural resources and 50 per cent poor survive only on 1 per cent of the natural resources of the world. Dr Mangala Rai was former Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR and is a fellow of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences, India. He has been an able manager and a great policy planner. His areas of expertise are in genetics, plant breeding, seeds management, policy and perspective planning. 37 Sustainable Agriculture India has only 2.3 per cent land and 4.2 per cent water of the whole world. We have 5-6 times more population density per unit of land as compared to the world average. Our 80 per cent people have less than 2-hectares of land and 36 per cent of the geographic area is eroded and degraded (47.7 million hectares facing chemical degradation, 7 million hectares are saline soils and 26 million hectares are acidic soils). Micronutrient-use efficiency of the soils is also low — soils are deficient in zinc, boron and iron by 49, 33 and 12 per cent, respectively. To address varied issues, varietal improvement and integrated systems of farming are desired. Improving soil health and soil biota are to be given importance, as 80-90 per cent biological processes are through soil biota.