 The meat products could be classified as per the criteria like the extent of particle size reduction, degree of comminution and type of processing, etc. According to the 2021 economic census, food processing industries grew at an average annual rate of 9.99% for the five fiscal years ending in 2018-19, overtaking agriculture (growing at a rate of 3.12% per year) and manufacturing (growing at an annual rate of 8.25%). Frozen and chilled meat is being exported to more than 54 countries in the world and has crossed the value of Rs. 3500 crores. 7.2. Traceability model for Indian buffalo meat industry Farm-to-fork traceability in buffalo chain was successfully achieved by identification of animals using ear tagging, registration of farms and abattoirs, and systematic updating of information pertaining to animals, farm and abattoir in the traceability database being developed at NRC on meat. The traceability model developed showed that it is possible to maintain farm to fork traceability of buffalo meat by proper documentation of the system and regular update of the information. 7.3. Technologies for value added meat products Processing of meat or further processing is primarily done to add value to meat, provide variety and convenience to the consumers, provide employment, better utilization of low- value cuts and by-products from slaughterhouses, extend shelf-life, facilitate incorporation Achievements in Livestock and Poultry Production in Independent India 159 of non-meat ingredients, better marketing and distribution, better profit and scope for export. Emulsion-based meat products: Emulsion is made by grinding or chopping the meat added with common salt (NaCl) to a fine meat homogenate forming the matrix in which fat is dispersed. Several products like nuggets, functional nuggets, sausages, meat balls, meat petties and croquettes are popular and marketed. Enrobed products: Enrobing is the process of making “further processed products” by applying an edible coating, and it brings several advantages such as value addition, versatility to consumers, and improvement of nutritive value. The products like enrobed eggs and enrobed/ coated meat products are very popular. Recipes for products: Recipes for restructured meat products and cured and smoked meat products, heritage products (like Kebbabs, curries, pickle, soups), shelf stable ready-to- eat meat products, fermented meat products and functional foods were standardized and commercialized. 7.4. Innovative approaches in processing of poultry eggs The innovative strategies entail improvements with inclusion of eggs and other nutrient rich ingredients through innovative egg processing techniques with focus to enhance the nutrient contents of the developed products and to enhance the storage stability under ambient storage.