0) issued by O/o CGA, Audit Committee has been constituted in this Department under the Chairmanship of Secretary (DARE) and DG (ICAR) with the approval of Secretary (DARE) and DG (ICAR) and terms of reference of Internal Audit Committee has been defined in O/o CCA OM No. Agri/IAW/Audit Committee (DARE)/2022-23 (Computer File No. 197946)/523-532 dated15.09.2022. (d) During the financial year 2023-24, the focus of Audit was to detect errors in fixation of Pay paid in excess as well as in short. Status of Outstanding Internal Audit paras in the Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) as on 30.09.2023 are given below: Banking Arrangements State Bank of India is the accredited bank for PAOs and its field offices in the Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare. The e-payments processed by the PAOs/CDDOs are settled through CMP, SBI, Hyderabad in favor of the bank account of vendors/beneficiaries. In some cases, Cheques issued by the PAOs/CDDOs are presented to the nominated branch of the accredited bank for payment. The receipts are also remitted to the accredited banks by the respective PAOs/CDDOs apart from Non-Tax-Receipt Portal (NTRP). Any change in accredited bank requires specific approval of Controller General or Accounts, Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance. Principal Accounts Office has 09 (Nine) Pay & Accounts Offices. Four PAOs are located in Delhi/NCR. One each in Mumbai, Chennai, Cochin, Kolkata and Nagpur. All payments pertaining to the Department/Ministry arc made through PAOs/CDDOs attached with respective PAOs. Drawing and Disbursing Officer present their claims/bills to the designated PAOs/CDDOs, who issue and releases e­ payment after exercising the necessary scrutiny as per provisions contained in Civil Accounts Manual, Receipt and Payment Rules and other orders issued by Government from time to time. Initiatives on e-payment Thee-payment system in all Pay & Accounts Offices of Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare had been successfully implemented from 2011 onwards. e-Payment System Since, the IT Act, 2000 recognizes the digitally signed documents or electronic records digitally authenticated by means of an electronic method or procedure in accordance with the provisions of section 3 of the Act, the Controller General of Accounts had developed a facility in COMPACT for electronic payment (e-payment) through digitally signed electronic advices. This had replaced the existing system of payment through cheque while leveraging the COMPACT application running in all Pay & Accounts Offices in all Ministries/Departments of Central Government. Thee-payment system developed was a fully secured web based system of electronic payment services which introduces transparency in government payment system.