 Pandit Deen Dayal Upathyaya Pashu Chikitsa Vigyan Vishwavi dyalaya Evam Go-Anusandhan sansthan (DUVASU), Mathura is a distinguished animal and veterinary scientist. He has a vast experience in research management in dairy science for overall dairy development. 74 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series increased consumption of camel milk as it is low in cholesterol, contains three times higher vitamin C and ten times higher iron than cow’s milk. Its role in liver disfunction, diabetes, arthritis, long bone pain, allergy, autism, tuberculosis and as aphrodisiac has been established. We have to process large quantities of the milk and we use cheaper and easy way of pasteurization, there is one technology developed by NDRI for testing A1 & A2 milk and farms are using these technologies for selling milk as A1 & A2. Even if it is to believe that A2 is good and A1 is bad milk, all Indian cattle, buffalo, sheep, goat milk are A2. Key takeaways Utilization of milk for nutritional security and to address hidden hunger. Child should be given milk during initial 1000 days; specially at two years after birth. 75 Contemporary Agricultural Research ASSESSING ANIMAL SCIENCE TECHNOLOGY CONTRIBUTIONS TO LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY SECTOR GROWTH-NEED OF THE HOUR K.M. Bujarbaruah Animal scientists have transformed livestock sector from the deficiency to near sufficiency. Today (2021), India is first in milk production in the world with 210-million-ton production which is 11 times higher than the production in1951 and per capita milk consumption has also increased from 113g/day to 437g/ day. The country also ranked 3rd in egg production with around 100 billion eggs production and 5th in broiler production with 4.20 million ton and 8th in total meat production with around 6.3 million tonnes meat production. Such growth in livestock sector has been possible with the injection technology developed by animal scientists combined with policy decisions by the government from time to time. However, Dr K.M. Bujarbaruah Former Vice Chancellor Assam Agricultural University is known for his scientific and administrative acumen. His areas of interest include agriculture and allied sciences (Livestock Production & Management). 76 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series questions are being raised as to what is the contribution of technology in terms of its adoption and economic value or what is the per cent share of technology in this growth? Paradoxically, many a times we cannot quantify it for want of quantifiable data and their analysis. In this digital era, we need digitised information and data to substantiate our share of claims as well as to apply emerging technologies like all forms of artificial intelligence tools and techniques so that we can claim commensurating resource needs to lead a technology- driven production to consumption chain of livestock products.