ovation in tribal farms 143 institutional reforms 113 integrated disease management 72 farming 17 system model 16 nutrient management 14 watershed development 142 weed and disease management 161 Intellectual Property and Technology Management Unit 145 internal ribosomal entry sites 28 International collaboration 151 International Fellowships 104 ir-HSP 117 irrigation water 67 isabgol 73 Island and Coastal Region 139 IVRI-Pashu-Prajanan App 116 Ivy gourd 56 jute fabric, Fire retardant 96 Jute, Accelerated retting of 100     

Web Url-https://icar.gov.in/  Annual Report 2016–17 Department of Agricultural Research and Education Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Government of India Indian Council of Agricultural Research New Delhi  DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 III Foreword I am happy to present the DARE-ICAR Annual Report 2016-17 as the President of the ICAR Society and take pride in mentoring this organization that has contributed so much to the agricultural revolution in the country. Be it, development of varieties and technologies by constituent ICAR Institutes or substantial outreach by Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs), the organization has been vibrant and vigilant and continuing to perform farmer-centric agricultural R&D for enabling Indian agriculture to not only be sustainable, but also climate-resilient. During the reporting year, the ICAR has taken concerted efforts to implement some of the government flagship programmes such as ‘more crop per drop’, safeguarding soil health, establishment of seed hubs for pulses and oilseeds, promoting mechanization of small farms, enhancing production of pulses and oilseeds to meet the domestic demands, address information needs of farmers and transfer of technologies. The Council developed 310 new high-yielding/hybrid varieties of field crops and 51 horticultural crops that have been notified during 2016-17 and produced over 12,500 tonnes of breeder seeds. To enable small farm mechanization, 53 implements were developed. ICAR also registered 9 new livestock and poultry breeds and developed 3 new vaccines and 15 diagnostic kits. In our efforts to promote digital agriculture, dedicated mobile app for rice (riceXpert) and a web-based application, pulseExpert were developed. A dedicated KVK Portal has been launched with user interface to enable monitoring and management of KVKs. Twenty new KVKs were established taking the total to 662 in the country. Likewise, in education sector, the Rajendra Agricultural University was upgraded into Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University. Four new colleges were opened under Rani Laxmibai Central Agricultural University, Jhansi. In the northeast India, we opened 6 new colleges under Central Agricultural University, Imphal raising the total number of its constituent colleges from 7 to 13. To promote agricultural education among several students, we declared and celebrated December 3 as the National Agricultural Education Day.