 • 660 field virus isolates characterized antigenically through two dimensional micro neutralization test, liquid phase blocking ELISA and sandwich ELISA using serum antibody and monoclonal antibody. • 2324 serum samples tested in liquid phase blocking ELISA (LPBE) for FMD virus specific protective antibody titre. • Extended technical and logistic support to FMD control programme initiated by Govt of India for the creation of disease free zones in selected 54 districts of the country. Diagnostic kits for analyzing about 22,000 serum samples were provided and 21,000 pre‐ and post vaccinate serum samples were tested by LPB ELISA. Sixty percent of the serum samples tested contained protective level of antibody indicating success of the first phase of the FMD control programme. • Genetic characterization of field isolates (313, 107 and 132) belonging to type O, A and Asia 1, respectively were sequenced at the 1D region. The complete structural protein coding region of 31 type O, 18 A and 18 Asia 1 viruses was sequenced. Complete genome sequence www.icar.org.in 19 2002 ‐ 2007 of two vaccine strains in type Asia 1 and 23 field isolates was determined. Besides, leader protease (L) and 3A genes involved in host range and virulence were also sequenced for many isolates belonging to types O, A and Asia 1. A huge sequence database on Indian FMD viruses could be created and expert analysis of these data led to many important phylogenetic inferences. In type Asia 1 two lineages were found circulating in the field with dominance of a divergent group in lineage 2. This was supported at the complete genome sequence based phylogeny and at the 5’‐UTR length as well. The secondary RNA structures predicted for IRES regions revealed the probable presence of an extra domain in addition to the five domains in the isolates of the divergent group. In type A, four genotypes viz. I, IV, VI and VII, out of ten global genotypes, were found present in India. The presence of oldest PanAsia strain in India was traced back to 1982. Although, recombination in the capsid coding region in FMD viruses is a very rare event, an inter‐genotype recombinant in type A was a significant finding during this period. • A study undertaken to shortlist candidate vaccine strains in type O indicated that isolates IND 271/01 and IND 120/02 can be ideal substitutes to current vaccine strain, IND R2/75. Complete nucleotide sequence of all the short listed strains was generated. • Determined the lineage of type Asia 1 field isolates using PCR protocols. A multiplex‐PCR (mPCR) protocol for serotyping of FMD clinical samples was developed. The test was found to be sensitive and reliable for differentiating Indian FMDV serotypes. The detection level varied from 1.5 to 10,000 TCID50 depending on serotypes. A non‐isotopic RNA dot hybridization assay with colorimetric detection, targeting both the IRES and the 3D region, was also validated, and is capable of handling high throughput samples with ease.