in/Agroforestry/); (14) AICRP on Goat (https://aicrp.icar.gov.in/goat/); (vii) AICRP on Castor, Safflower and Sunflower (https://aicrp.icar.gov.in/css/); and hosted on KRISHI Portal. Information systems for AICRPs: Developed Information System for (i) AICRP on Pearl millet and (ii) AICRP on Castor, Safflower and Sunflower; (iii) AICRP on Small Millets to plan and design experiments, generate data, analyze data and prepare report of AICRP experiments. It is also useful for creation of research data repository and standardization of analysis and reporting of experiments. ICAR IPR repository: ICAR institutes are using different IP tools to protect their intellectual assets, viz. patents, trademarks, copyrights and designs. To compile intellectual assets in a scientific manner with its regular update at inventor level, developed an integrated workflow based application on Patents, Copyrights and Varieties registered with PPVFRA. major purposes both for the spatial data generator and for the spatial data user. For the generator, the metadata provides a framework to document the spatial data and declare its content for users. For the user, metadata serves many important purposes, including finding the spatial data as per need; browsing spatial data; deciding on whether the spatial data will meet the application needs and finding how the spatial data can be accessed. Developed a workflow based application for geo- metadata. ICAR video and audio gallery For providing single window access of all the videos, audios, mobile apps of ICAR institutes, developed version 2 of (i) ICAR Video Gallery, (ii) ICAR Audio Gallery and (iii) Mobile App Galleries separately using Angular JS with CAS Spring web App and hosted at https://krishi.icar.gov.in/video; https://krishi.icar. gov.in/audio and https://krishi.icar.gov.in/mobileapp/ respectively. At present 2000+ videos, 70+ Audios and 250+ mobile apps are available in this gallery. Search can be made using keyword(s) or SMD, institute and language with drop down filters. Links of the videos of CG Centres; AAFC, Canada; CAAS, China; Emprapa, Brazil, INRAE, France; CSIRO, Australia; DD KISAN; KRISHI Darshan, etc. are also provided on this gallery. Academic management system (AMS): Academic Management system (AMS) Version 2.0 was developed and customized under the NAHEP Component 2 for its implementation at various agricultural universities. It is a web enabled system for management of all the various academic activities of a university. The system caters to the needs of different users: Dean, Registrar, Professor, Head, Guide, Faculty, Teacher, Student, Administrators and Officials for performing their assigned tasks. The system was designed in a modular approach with in-built work flows. System ensures that the individuals responsible for the next task are notified and receive the data they need to execute at their stage of process. At present five modules were envisaged, viz.