7% of India’s total geographic area and nurture nearly 50% of the biodiversity in the country of which about 32% is endemic. Mostly indigenous farming practices are followed in Northeast which are predominantly organic in nature and depend on the indigenous technical knowledge systems prevalent in the region for centuries. Agro-climatic conditions of the region are rainfed and most conducive for organic farming. The region is bestowed with diversity of numerous fruits, vegetables, flowers, spices, medicinal plants and a vast array of indigenous crops. Diversity in horticultural crops embraces the potential to strengthen the economy and ecology of the region through the adoption of organic horticulture by NPOP Guidelines- based farm production and wild collection either as commodities or value-added products. Sikkim was declared as the first fully organic state of the country in 2016 and all the other Northeastern states aim to shift towards organic farming. T HE most effective ecological and sustainable agriculture intensification model, organic farming, is a judicious option for wholesome and quality farm produce with no negative ecological impacts, and ensures adequate health of both the environment and humans. India’s horticulture production has grown leaps in the last two decades and estimated to rise one per cent record of 350.87 million tonnes in 2022-23 (347.18 MT in 2021-22), riding on the back of higher output of fruits and vegetables according to the advance estimate of horticulture production released recently by the Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Govt. of India. Production at a higher sustainable level offers incredible scope to diversify and increase production and productivity. This opens up a window for organic horticulture towards both, diversification and development of safe food production systems. As on 31 March 2023, the total area under the organic certification process (registered under the National Programme for Organic Production) in India was 10.17 m ha (2022-23). This includes 53,91,792.97 ha cultivable area and another 47,80,130.56 ha for wild harvest collection. India produced around 2.9 million MT (2022-23) of certified organic products which include all varieties of food products namely oil seeds, fibre, sugar cane, cereals, millets, cotton, pulses, aromatic and medicinal plants, tea, coffee, fruits, spices, dry fruits, vegetables, processed foods, etc. The total volume of exports during 2022-23 was 3,12,800.51 MT. Organic food export realization was around INR 5,525.18 Crore (708.33 million USD). The existing scenario offers considerable opportunity to enhance the proportion of horticultural products both as commodities and value-added products or processed foods. Presently, India does not have a significant presence in the international organic trade with less than one per cent footprint.