 The worst-case scenario was considered to assess and map the drought hazards risk. The severity of drought hazard was analysed based on the criteria provided in Table 4, and the areas under higher agriculture drought hazard risk over GRB were mapped using GIS. A multi-criteria classification table was prepared to assess the total drought risk over the GRB (Table 4). For values above zero, SPEI was categorised as no (safe), low, me­ dium, high, and very high (extreme) risks in terms of drought hazard. Similarly, the vulnerability to drought hazard was analysed using land use as exposure risk, and population density as sensitivity risk. Exposure was cross tabulated with sensitivity to identify the vulnerability of agriculture to droughts. Ranking values were assigned, and the final risk map was illustrated considering the risk intensity (low, medium, high, and very high) of agriculture to droughts. Estimation of agricultural drought risk. The final agricultural drought risk was analysed by assessing the drought hazard and drought vulnerability risk maps. DR = DH × DV (DE × DS), (8) where DR, DH, DV, DE, and DS are the drought risk, hazard, vulnera­ bility, exposure, and severity, respectively. The two-dimensional table (Table 5) was applied to the classified hazard map and the classified vulnerability map to produce the risk map. The overall risk score was derived by multiplying the likelihood by potential impact of the risk. Risks were classified as safe (no risk = 0), low priority (4–6), medium priority (8–9), high priority (10–12), and very high-risk priority (15–25). A risk matrix was prepared to assign a risk level to each pixel. The final drought risk mapping was obtained by overlaying the hazard risk map and the vulnerability risk map using multi-criteria evaluation techniques in GIS based on the rank and assigned scores under the worst-case scenario. Risk evaluation and impact analysis Droughts reduce crop yield by creating unfavourable conditions for crop development. They are occurred not only in arid regions but also in areas with relatively abundant precipitation. Therefore, understanding the extent of hazard, exposure, vulnerability, and the risk of droughts to agriculture is critical for the developing appropriate water management and mitigation measures to reduce adverse impacts and increase crop yield. Therefore, the developed agriculture drought risk analysis was used to identify the most affected and vulnerable areas (sub-basins and districts) over GRB. The identified districts were used to evaluate the drought impact, and agricultural statistical data (crop production and prices) were obtained for the districts identified. Statistical estimation was performed to analyse the drought impact according to the loss or gain in crop yield and economy during a drought year compared to the previous production year.