 trees, shrubs, water bodies, for providing congenial atmosphere, proper ecosystem creation and biomass production. yy Establishment of young orchard and its management with organic inputs. yy Encouraging mixed farming by inclusion of annual crops and short duration fruits such as papaya, guava, drumsticks, etc. as per soil, climate, family and market demand. yy Nutrient management through organic means, i.e. use of composts, leaf mould, bio-enhancers, mulching and need base foliar sprays of bio-pesticides. yy Pests and disease management with organic techniques. yy Rejuvenation of old orchard and organic management. yy Promotion of export quality varieties and organic production to capture export market. yy Integration of post-harvest handling and processing with organic techniques. Nutrient management yy Growing of legumes for green manuring or as inter/ cover crops as per requirement in young orchards. yy Application of organic manures (30-40 kg/tree) through NADEP, vermi/biodynamic after fruit harvest in trench 1.5 meter away from the trunk in 10 or more than 10 years old trees. yy Mulching after application of 100 g CPP, spraying of cow horn manure (BD-500)/ 3% of Panchagavya/ 20% Jeevamrita/Amritpani. yy Two foliar spraying of biodynamic liquid manures/ vermi-wash at the interval of 15 days after fruit harvest for proper growth and development. Insect pest management yy Spraying of biodynamic liquid pesticides as per requirement and experience. yy Nettle leaves extract sprays to manage hard pests like mango hopper, mites, etc. yy Use of NSKE for the management of mango hopper. yy Application of tree paste for repelling stem borer twice in a year i.e. before and after rainy season. yy Manual killing of stem borers, injecting neem oil and plugging bores with clay soil during September -October. yy Use of pheromone traps for the management of fruit fly in late maturing cultivars. yy Biodynamic tree paste/cow dung paste for the management of gummosis and dieback. yy Two sprays of cow horn silica (BD-501)/ (2%) wettable sulphur/lime for the management of powdery mildew. yy Spraying of horsetail (Equisetum arvensis)/casuarina leaves extract for the management of other fungal diseases. yy Spraying of 2% bordeux mixture for anthracnose and 2% lime sulphur for powdery mildew management. For further interaction, please write to R A Ram (Principal Scientist), ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Rehmankhera, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 227 101. *Corresponding author e-mail: ra.ram@icar.gov.in Attention readers: • All disputes are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of competent courts and forums in Delhi/New Delhi only. • The Council does not assume any responsibility for opinions offered by the authors in the articles and no material in any form can be reproduced without permission of the Council.