 Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), Dist. Medak Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2799 Cultivation of Nalla Korra (black) foxtail millet 2800 Cultivation of Erra Korra (red) fox tail millet 2801 Cultivation of Telia Saama (white) little millet 2802 Cultivation of Nalla Saama (black) little millet hectare. The seed is not affected by insects or pests. Cooked Mamchu Korra is soft and if eaten relieves body pain. Keywords: Mamchu Korra, fodder, pests, body pain This crop is grown in red and black soils of Telangana zone of Andhra Pradesh, especially in Medak district, and matures within 120 days. On an average it gives 2 tonnes grain and 2.5 tonnes fodder/ha. It is tolerant to pests and diseases. It is good appetizer and is offered to Lord Naga. Keywords: Nalla Korra, Lord Naga, appetizer, pest and disease resistance This crop is grown in all types of soil even in less-rainfall areas of Andhra Pradesh. It can be grown as intercrop with pigeonpea and yields 1.2 tonnes grain along with 2,500-3,000 bundles of fodder per hectare. It is a good appetizer and good diet for human beings, especially for children and also for animals. Keywords: Erra Korra, low rainfall, intercrops, appetizer It is an important millet crop, grown in degraded black and red soils of Andhra Pradesh. It matures within 120 days and yields 2.5 tonnes grain per hectare. It is consumed during summer to give cooling effect to body. Keywords: Telia Saama, grain, summer cooling effect This crop is grown in all types of soils and produces 1 tonne grain and 5 cartloads of fodder per hectare. The crop comes to maturity within 120 days after sowing. Keywords: Nalla Saama, soil types (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), Dist. Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M). Dist. Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), Dist. dist. Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Content CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2803 Cultivation of Kodi Saama (rabi) little millet 2804 Cultivation of Aargulu kodo millet 2805 Increase in yield of chickpea by different practices 2806 Cultivation of Erra Togari (red) pigeonpea This crop is raised in red chalka soils and comes to maturity within 120 days, giving a grain yield of 1 tonne and 5 cartloads fodder per hectare. It is tolerant to pests and diseases. It is drought tolerant but its grain is coarse. If the crop is delayed beyond 2 days of maturity, the grain falls on the ground. Keywords: Kodi Saama, chalka, shattering This crop is raised in gravelly and red chalka soils. Depending upon the distribution of rain, its duration will vary. It yields 0.