 Ganoderma lucidum local strains, Chinese strains, and Udaipur strains were evaluated and attained good success. Germplasm Collection and Survey & surveillance for diseases and Insect Pests: Total 110 (One hundred and ten) wild fleshy fungi were collected form 16 districts of Chhattisgarh during monsoon season (2002‐06) some of theme have already been deposited at gene bank, NRCM, Solan and most prominent fungi was Termitomyces sp. In Survey and surveillance for diseases and insects pests, Trichoderma viride was recorded to be the most predominant followed by Coprinus Sp. Rhizoctonia solani and Sclerotium rolfsii among competitors’ molds of different mushroom growers and experiments. Post Harvest Technology: Loss in weight of fruit bodies of Agaricus bisporus cv CM I was considerably less when the fruiting bodies were dipped with EDTA, 500 & 200 ppm under both ambient and refrigerated conditions. Agariucus bisporus was preserved well for 8‐10 days under refrigerated condition and only 1‐2 days under ambient temperature when packed in 125 gauge thick polyethylene bags and 100 gauge thick polyethylene bags. Transfer of Technology: Twenty eight (28) training programs were organized (5 national & 23 state level) on Mushroom Spawn Production, Crop Production Technology, Processing Technology for the benefit of 1140 entrepreneurs, rural youths, students, farm foment/ men of Chhattisgarh during last five year. Centre participated in 24 Kisan mela/Kisan Sammelan /NSS camps. Fifty two lectures were delivered in different training programs on mushroom. Eighteen talks were delivered on Television / Radio. Two video films on different aspects of mushroom cultivation were prepared. One hundred three (103) Extension articles/News/leaf lets/folders/bulletins/compendiums were published. Mushroom pure culture/mother spawn/ pickles/fresh mushroom worth of Rs. 1, 83, 437 /‐ were sold from mushroom research lab during last five year. Thirty four (34) distinguished dignitaries of National and State, Governors, Council of Ministers, Officers from Central and State Government etc. visited and appreciated the activities. Seventy (70) groups of visitors visited the mushroom laboratory. Participated in exhibitions of students and farmers of different district of Chhattisgarh. Publications: During the period 19 research articles were published, 45 research papers were presented, while a National Workshop on “Awareness Creation on Bio‐diversity and Conservation of Mushrooms” from 1‐2nd December, 2005 and X Biennial Workshop of AICMIP from 26‐27th October, 2006 were organized. Eighteen PG Thesis were Guided. One ICAR Short course from 9‐18th January, 2006 was successfully organized. www.icar.org.in 59 2002‐2007 Mahatma Phule University of Agriculture and Technology, Pune: White Button Mushroom (Agaricus bisporus): The strain CM‐7 and CM‐9 recorded highest mushroom yield of 17.89 to 19.42 g/100 kg compost. In chemical pasteurization, significantly higher yield of 11.