 Tractors and other machines helped farmers in ploughing the soil and harvesting the crops. This mechanization reduced time and effort put on farming as a whole. Natural climatic conditions are the main concern of the farmers. Sowing and harvesting largely depend upon the start and the end of the seasonal rains. India’s thousands of villages relied upon such normal state of agriculture. The traditional methods of cultivation yield a minimum, just satisfying the minimum needs of the farmers. In 1943, the world’s first recorded food disaster “Bengal Famine” occurred in British India in which 4 million people died of hunger. Poor rainfall and conditions aroused due to India’s freedom struggle were the two prominent factors that drove the farmers in Bengal out of their profession. After independence in 1947, the “Green revolution” was ushered in to achieve a significant increase in crop production using chemical fertilizers, pesticides, and high-yielding crop varieties. It aimed at the supply of enough food for the growing population. Farmers were periodically exposed to advanced agronomic measures and tackling of problematic areas in cultivation. Semi-intensive scientific approach and introduction of machinery added more vigour to the farming sector. Production increased to achieve self-sufficiency to a greater extent. In this transitional stage, farming witnessed two important transformation: 1) the adoption and adaptation of the modern methods of cultivation and 2) coping with the challenges from environmental damages and economic instabilities. In the present scenario, agriculture has become substantially global. The science we experience today in everyday life is techno-science (Ihde 2009). There is a change in the idea that science is an abstract knowledge as techno-science, which brings significant changes in natural resources (Lenk 2007). Power is a significant dimension of techno-science. Techno-scientific activities are energy-hungry and encompass economic, scientific, and social development models practically 132 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR separating human communities from nature. The introduction of processed quality seeds, some genetically modified traits of crops, organic farming and other newer methods of plantation, etc., have provided many farmers higher income and better living conditions than before. The economic state of today’s farmers has grown much better than their ancestors owing to an overall improved state of economy in many sectors. Buying power, distribution channels and consumerism have made the agro-markets more profitable. Gandhiji considered agriculture as the main stay for the upliftment of the entire nation. He also had the firm belief that “the future of India lies in its villages”. To Gandhiji, the practice of agriculture signified a promise of limitless reach. Gandhiji said, “to forget how to dig the earth and tend the soil is to forget ourselves”.