 Indian Farming 74 (03): 09-12; March 2024 Snapshot of the KVK portal Indian Farming 74 (03): 09-12; March 2024 Empowering farmers A comprehensive guide to KVK Portal of ICAR U S Gautam’, R R Burman’, Sujeet K Jha’, Alka Arora”, Sudeep Marwaha?, Soumen Pal? and Naseeb Choudhary? Division of Agricultural Extension, |CAR-HQ, New Delhi 110 012 21CAR-Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012 3Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, Haryana 125 004 This article delves into the transformative role of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs), operating under the aegis of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), in elevating the socio-economic status of farmers across India. As integral component of the National Agricultural Research System (NARS), KVKs serve as dynamic knowledge and resource centres, focused on the assessment, refinement, and dissemination of location-specific agricultural technologies. The Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) portal, developed by the ICAR, designed to provide farmers with a plethora of resources and services stands out as a beacon of innovation. Through on-farm demonstrations, technology assessments, and capacity-building programme, KVKs facilitate to empower farmers with the latest advancements in agriculture. The collaborative efforts of KVKs with public, private, and voluntary sectors underscore their comprehensive approach to improve the agricultural economy at the district level. The current arcticle explores the multifaceted functions of KVKs, emphasizing their pivotal role in connecting research initiatives with the extension system and farmers. Moreover, this arcticle serves as a comprehensive exploration of how KVKs, as catalysts for agricultural innovation, contribute to the holistic betterment of farmers and the sustainable development of Indian agriculture. Keywords: Extension, Farmer, Knowledge hub, Portal N an era, where technology plays a pivotal role in demonstrations. This article delves into the significance, transforming traditional practices, the Krishi Vigyan functions, and impact of Krishi Vigyan Kendra’s in the Kendra (KVK) portal, developed by the Indian Council context of Indian agriculture. of Agricultural Research (ICAR), stands out as a beacon of innovation. This online platform, accessible at https:// kvk.icar.gov.in/, is designed to provide farmers with a plethora of resources and services aimed at enhancing agricultural ; productivity and promoting sustainable J KRISHI KALYAN ABHIYAN farming practices. Krishi Vigyan . “Prosperous Farmers for a Prosperous Nation™ Kendra (KVK) plays a pivotal role in the agricultural landscape of India, serving as a knowledge and resource hub for farmers.