 Aquaculture presently is difficult without induced breeding of commercially cultivable fish species. The fish seed demand has increased steadily for stocking in aquaculture pond and natural water bodies such as reservoirs and rivers. The per capita fish consumption will increase largely in the developing countries in near future. Issues and importance of breed improvement Selective breeding is a novel approach to improvise the fish production. The major issues are: • Non adoption of genetic norms in commercial carp hatcheries resulting in inbreeding depression leading to genetic erosion, loss of important alleles in the population and seed quality deterioration. • Inadvertent hybridization of Indian Major Carps because of mixed breeding resulting to the genetic pollution in the hatcheries leading to non-availability of the pure strains of the carps. • Genetically improved breed for desirable traits. Broodstock is the principal and primary input of an effective and productive hatchery, while, management of broodstock is also vital for quality seed production. Success of induced breeding depends on the availability of adequate number of brood fish. Brood fish should be reared scientifically to get the matured broods during breeding season. Seed is the important component for development of aquaculture sector. The rapid growth of aquaculture has been dependent on the availability of desired fish seed in required quantity to the fish farmers. Broodstock or brood fish are the base materials on which the growth of aquaculture industry depends. The availability of quality fish seed throughout the year is crucial for adoption of sustainable aquaculture by farmer. Although large quantities of seed of major cultured species is now produced in hatcheries, seed quality has remained as a major constraint for the success of aquaculture. Poor quality of seed can have a variety of causes related to both genetics and management. The quality and management of brood fish and hatchery practices that lead to inbreeding or contamination have been implicated, as has been poor husbandry during nursing, culture and transportation. Infection with pathogens to the seed may be cause for poor performance. Indian Farming November 2020 28 Hatchery management For hatchery manager/owners two types of managements are required: Management of broodstock and hatchery while spawning, and Stock management through genetic norms (Fig. 1 and 2). Management of broodstock and hatchery To raise good quality brood fish, it is better to collect fast growing healthy yearlings from known source (genetic background) of parent fishes and keep in quarantine for 1-2 months. Stocking density is one of the important measures for assuring good and healthy brooders. The stocking density for brood carps should be at 1,500-2,000 kg/ha in polyculture system. The prospective brood fishes are to be reared in separate ponds with rich plankton source.