 Patel (1996c) 216 Control of blight in cumin by botanical mixture Tender neem, kuvarpathu (Aloe vera) and aakdo (Calatropis gigantea) leaves are ground in equal proportion to make homogenous mixture.When the crop has grown for about 30 days, a mixture of 500 ml of the extract with 5 g of washing powder, diluted in 15 litres is applied. Water is sprayed at 8-10 days regular intervals which prevents blight (Surendra-nagar, Gujarat). Rathod (2001) 217 Disease control in cumin through deposited dust in leaves Farmers grow cumin (Cuminum cymiinum) in outside field to take advantage of dust that settles on the crop. They believe that absorbs moisture and make the crop less vulnerable to diseases. For the same reason the crop is grown on sloping lands also (Gujarat). Patel (1993c) 218 Control of blight in cumin by extract of kheemp Approximately 5–7 kg branches of 'kheemp' are kept in an open water tank. After a week, the filtrate was sprinkled over the cumin crop. This result in about 80 percent control of the disease. (Ajmer, Rajasthan) Kumhar (1996a) 219 Prevention of blight in cumin by sowing technique Farmers generally sow cumin seeds by broadcasting. Cumin is often infected by blight disease and consequently suffers significant reduction in the yield. Blight makes plant turn black and wither away. A new method of sowing cumin seeds, ie. broadcasting seeds in the field and made small beds using a wooden multi-tool bar having 3 coulters known locally 'tarfen' or 'dantal' which is drawn through the field by a pair of bullocks. This makes long narrow ridges in the field and the seeds blend well with the soil and accumulate on the small bunds made by ridges. This contributes to a higher germination rate. The soil around the plants remains dry even during the severe cold when dew fall is very Tavadiya (1996) 90 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference high. As a consequence, the incidence of blight is greatly reduced. Several other farmers of the same village have also begun to use this method of sowing cumin (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). 220 Kaliyo desease control in cumin Farmers generally believe that excessive moisture leads to various kinds of diseases in cumin. Devshiji Thakore has been irrigating his field judiciously to prevent his cumin crop from being infected with 'kaliyo' disease. He made his plots small so that not much water is collected in the fields. A light irrigation is given right after sowing. The next irrigation is given after a gap of 7 to 8 days. And a third and final irrigation is given at the pre-flowering stage. Later, the irrigation is totally stopped. Last year many farmers of this area, who irrigated their crop 4 or more times, suffered due to the infection of 'kaliyo' disease in their crop. Devshibhai's field remained unaffected.Devshibhai kept his crop free from dew also by using the following technique.