 KVKs have emerged as pivotal institutions in transforming the landscape of Indian agriculture since the inception of the first KVK in Puducherry (the then Pondicherry) on 21st March 1974, following Dr Mohan Singh Mehta Committee Report recommendations. Ensuring sustainable food production and household nutritional security on a national scale hinge on the effective diffusion of agricultural innovations. This necessitates sustainable, economically viable, and intensive farming across diverse resource endowments. Farmers need access to technology in crop, livestock, forestry, and fisheries sectors. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) addresses this through KVKs established at district levels across India. Over the past five decades, the ICAR has built a robust network of 731 KVKs across India, adapting to evolving farming challenges. Accordingly, the mandated activities of KVKs have also changed over the period. The KVKs have been established by the ICAR under the administrative control of Agricultural Universities, ICAR Institutes, State Governments, Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs), Non-Government Organizations (NGOs), Educational Institutions and other organizations emphasizing technology development, adoption, and human resource development to enhance productivity sustainably. The KVKs serve as crucial links between research and extension system, conducting on-farm testing, frontline demonstrations, and training for farmers and extension personnel besides providing feedback to research system and further propelling it to the main extension system. KVKs also serve as knowledge and resource centres for agricultural technologies, uniquely positioned to provide district-level technological support to farmers and stakeholders, with ongoing efforts to strengthen their role. KVKs have been instrumental in promoting cutting-edge agricultural technologies and sharing knowledge to farmers across the country. Through frontline demonstrations, training programs, and farmer-centric initiatives, KVKs have empowered millions of farmers with the latest advancements in crop production, animal husbandry, agroforestry, and allied sectors. By fostering a culture of innovation and experimentation, KVKs have played a pivotal role in enhancing farm productivity, promoting sustainable practices, and improving rural livelihoods. One of the most significant achievements of KVKs has been their role in promoting agripreneurship and rural entrepreneurship. By providing training and handholding support to aspiring farmers and rural youth, KVKs have nurtured a new generation of agripreneurs who are driving innovation and economic growth in rural areas. From value-added agri-processing to agri-tourism and niche farming enterprises, KVKs have been at the forefront of fostering a vibrant ecosystem of rural entrepreneurship. Moreover, KVKs have been catalysts for social empowerment and inclusive development in rural communities.