 The study covered six types of respondents - the participants of completed CAFT programmes, participants of on-going CAFT programmes, CAFT beneficiaries with origin from same agricultural university, CAFT Directors, the peer group and deputing authorities of CAFT participants. The collected data were analyzed using descriptive statistics to arrive at meaningful conclusions and pragmatic implications. Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 4 Majority of the respondents were middle to old aged (65%), male (85%), in Assistant Professor cadre (69%), had doctoral degree (71%), with 6-20 years of service (64%) and up to 80 days of total training (53%). The respondents represented 25 states and all the CAFT centres. Highest proportion of the respondents reported self (22%), peers (21%) and immediate higher-up (20%) as the source of information about CAFT training programmes. Majority (53%) of the respondents revealed that ‘updating knowledge and skills’ as the motivation to attend CAFT training followed by 23 percent apiece reporting ‘training theme relevant to job’ and ‘training area related to subject’ as the motive. It was observed that most of the CAFT trained participants had favourable opinion towards pedagogy and training environment of CAFT programmes. Majority of the participants shared their CAFT experiences with their colleagues in an informal manner and utilized such experience in strengthening their research and teaching competencies. The participants of the live CAFT programmes appreciated the pedagogy of such programmes. They also suggested strategies for further improvement of CAFT programmes. The peer group as well as the deputing authorities agreed that there was improvement in the teaching competency of the CAFT participants after participation in the CAFT programmes. They also strongly agreed that the research competency of CAFT participants had improved. The respondents had favourable opinion towards variables of their own attributes, training design and delivery, organizational climate and transfer outcomes, the four components of training transfer system. The correlation studies suggested that the organizational climate is very important for facilitating transfer of knowledge and skill gains acquired by respondents back at their job conditions. The factors of the training transfer system that influenced the transfer outcomes provided hints for improvement for all the participants, training managers and authorizes of the Universities. The results of the study had brought pertinent pointers as implications for refinement of CAFT programmes in terms of pedagogy and training environment/ facilities in order to facilitate effective training transfer of CAFT programmes. The study results were presented for peer and expert review in a workshop organized specially for the purpose.