69% during storage for six days after harvesting at breaker stage (at room day temperature of 35+3°C). Kashi Rajhans: This variety was released and notified by State Variety Release Committee in 2019. This is a true vegetable type which yields 24.13 t/ha (green pods). It has ability to set fruits at 32-34ºC, hence off-season green pods availability up to second week of April, when other varieties of pods are not available. It is tolerant to French bean golden yellow mosaic virus under field conditions. Indian bean Kashi Bouni Sem-3: Developed through inter- varietal of Kashi Haritima (Pole) × Arka Vijay (Bush) followed by pedigree and individual plant selection and has ability to give flo-wering–fruiting at day temperature of up to 35°C. Determinate (Bush type) in growth (plant height 80-85 cm). Seed sowing period is last week of September to last week of October (Rabi crop). Peak fruiting period is in December last week to March first week. Days to first picking is 80-85. Staking is not required. National average production is about 257.48 q/ha in crop duration of 140-150 days. Free from Dolichos yellow vein mosaic virus during cropping period. Kashi Bouni Sem-9: This variety has also been developed through inter-varietal Kashi Sheetal (Pole) × Gomachi Green (Bush) followed by pedigree and individual plant selection and has ability to give flowering– fruiting at day temperature of up to 35°C. Growth habit is determinate (Bush type) with a plant height of 70-75 cm. Seed sowing period is last week of September to last week of October (Rabi crop). Peak fruiting period is last week of November to last week of December and continues to first week of March. Staking is not required. National average production is about 241.01 q/ha in crop duration of 140-150 days. Free from Dolichos yellow vein mosaic virus during cropping period. Radish Kashi Rituraj: ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi, has developed a CMS-based F1 hybrid of radish, first among Public Sector in India, which has ability to tolerate high temperature up to 38-43°C during April-June (summer) in North Indian plains; and has wider adaptability, i.e. suitable for cultivation during winter, spring, summer and autumn seasons. It produces lust-green leaves with sinuate type of leaf morphology which is preferred by consumer; forms attractive-white and long roots; and has higher marketable yield potential, i.e. 600-700 q/ha during winter season, 450-550 q/ha during spring season, and 350-425 q/ha during summer and autumn seasons. Cowpea Kashi Nidhi (VRCP-6): This variety was developed through hybridization followed by pedigree selection of cross Kashi Unnati × Cowpea-263 and released by Central Variety Release Committee in 2012 for commercial cultivation. This variety is dwarf photo- insensitive and tolerant to low temperature up to day temperature of 15°C and continues flowering and fruiting up to second week of December.