 The present experiments confirm the claim of the discloser that the addition of ash helps in early melting of snow and facilitates timely sowing of the crop in cold desert area of Lahaul and Spiti in Himachal Pradesh.  CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS Code : 676 Title of the ITK : Intercropping (maize + sesame) Description of the ITK : To overcome the insect and pest attack the farmers of Baldhar village of Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh adopt mixed cropping method. Sesame seeds are sown in maize field: By this mixed cropping pattern more than one crop is grown in the same field at a particular period. Fertility of the soil is maintained, and the attack of insect and pest is reduced. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Rajiv Kumar, Room No. 32 P, PBH_II Hostel, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 Location of use of the ITK : Substantial area in Kangra, Hamirpur and Una are under such intercropping systems. The study area is located in Palampur, district Kangra of Himachal Pradesh. This area is situated at 32°6' N latitude, 76°3' E longitude and at an altitude of 1290.8 m above mean sea level. The area falls in the wet temperate zone of the mid hills of Shivalik ranges in Himalayas. This experiences heavy rainfall and most of which is received during summer season (June_August). Maize is the major cereal crops grown by the farmers in Himachal Pradesh. The average yield of the state is 1990 kg/ha, respectively. Though, the yield of maize is higher than the national average however, it has further scope to increase. In Himachal Pradesh 83% area under this crop is rainfed. The uncertainty inherent in such agricultural systems tends to make maize growing risky, particularly at the time of sowing. The amount and the distribution of rainfall in a particular crop season decide the level of production. This situation alongwith diversified needs of the cultivator might have led them to the adoption of intercropping. Under such conditions intercropping, especially with oilseeds and pulses has proved superior to mono- cropping systems. The farmers in these areas are aware that this practice of growing crops together simultaneously has many advantages, viz., an assurance against the inclemency of weather, efficient utilization of various growth factors, conservation of soil on sloppy land and so on. The farmers' knowledge further suggested that, instances are not uncommon when mixed cropping has been found helpful  CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS  in reducing the incidence of pests and diseases when these inter crops acts as trap. Experimenters : Dr K. Bassi, Sr. Agronomist, Dr D. Badiyala, Scientist and Dr O.C. Kapur, Sr. Soil Scientist, Department of Agronomy, CSK HPKV, Palampur, Himachal Pradesh Table 1. Effect on growth and yield attributes in maize+sesame intercropping system at two locations Treatment Plant height (cm) Leaf area index Days taken to Maturity (75%) flowering (50%) I II I II I II I II Farmer’s practice 192.8 195.