 Non adoption of recommended high yielding varieties/hybrids to realize the potential yield in place of local varieties which are poor yielding types especially under rainfed conditions. ii. Lack of awareness on application of recommended doses of fertilizers both under rainfed as well as irrigated conditions. iii. Lack of need based plant protection for important pests and diseases. iv. Most of the crop is grown under rainfed and residual moisture conditions. Periodical drought of varying intensities and lack of irrigation facilities reduces the productivity levels. v. Variation in soil types. vi. Lack of timely and adequate seed supply. vii. Shoot fly and grain moulds in kharif season and shoot fly and charcoal rot in rabi season are the major limiting factors. Major constraints in achieving the demonstrated yield in Maize i. High incidence of biotic and abiotic stresses during the two growing seasons is influencing yields of maize. ii. Non availability of climate resilient maize cultivars. iii. Lower price compared to cereals. iv. Institutional and economic constraints. v. Lack of proper storage facilities in market yards. vi. Lack of infrastructure for post harvest processing and value addition. vii. Fading organic carbon in the soil is declining crop productivity and profitability is being reduced besides escalating costs of inputs and cost of cultivation. viii. Lack of varieties suitable for late sown condition. Major constraints in achieving the demonstrated yield in Oilseeds: i. Non-availability of quality seed ii. The non-availability of water at different intervals was also a major constraint in getting the adequate production from oilseed crops iii. Incidence of pest and diseases iv. Inadequate knowledge about disease and pest management v. The economic constraints relate to high input costs, shortage of human labour, low and fluctuating prices etc State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 7 vi. Inadequate storage vii. Lack of Processing Facilities viii. Poor Marketing System and Access to Markets ix. Lack of Information about the price and Markets Major constraints in achieving the demonstrated yield in Pulses: Blackgram i. Pre- harvest sprouting during kharif season lowers the quality of seeds. ii. Plant establishment in Rice-fallows iii. In Rice-fallow system there is serious menace of weeds & cuscuta. iv. Terminal moisture stress reduces the final yield. v. Diseases that seriously affect the blackgram are leaf curl, MYMV, leaf crinkle, PM, Corynespora, rust, wilt and Macrophomina. vi. Insect pests affecting the crop are Thrips, whitefly, Maruca pod borer, stem-fly and Spodoptera. Greengram i. Pre harvest sprouting during kharif season ii. Intermittent moisture stress iii. Plant establishment in Rice-fallows iv. Weed menace & cuscuta in Rice-fallows v. The greengram plants are susceptible to vi. Diseases: Leaf curl, leaf crinkle, MYMV, powdery mildew, ABLS vii.