 Kerala: The surveyed areas revealed normal serum mineral concentrations in animals except for a marginal deficiency of Mg in certain areas, scattered deficiency of Ca in soil samples, and Cu and P levels in a few fodder samples. The lower COMMERCIAL COMPLETE FEEDS Various centres of the Network Programme have already launched the programme for promoting the use of complete feed in various villages in their state. About 250 million tonnes of complete feed was supplied to farmers at production cost (Rs 4.20/kg) in summer when there was scarcity of green fodder. In this season the farmers get remunerative price of milk. The milk production increased by 1 to 2 litres/day an animal. Complete feed will be the best option for feeding dairy cows during periods of scarcity/drought. The pilot scale plant for producing complete feed pellets installed as a part of the ICAR project has a capacity to produce 4.5 tonnes of complete feed per day in one shift. The technology for complete feed formulation is available for commerciali- zation. HERBAL AND BIOLOGICAL AGENTS PREVENT MOULD INFESTATION OF POULTRY FEED Neem leaf, neem seed-cake, propionic acid and cultures of Trichoderma viridae produced positive response in controlling fungal proliferation in poultry feed. Neem leaf depressed fungal proliferation for 2 weeks, when added @ 800 g/ton feed, but not for a prolonged period of storage. A reduction of 47% in fungal growth was obtained with neem seed-cake on its inclusion at 100 g/ton feed. However, propionic acid (0.1%) in feed was highly effective with no trace of fungal growth. LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 121 dietary intake of Ca in certain areas probably is because of the differences in the type of feeds and quality of mineral mixture provided to animals. Survey and analysis of soil, feeds, fodder and biological materials did not reveal any specific mineral deficiency in all the 14 districts of the state. The higher incidence of low production and reproductive disorders may be either due to marginal deficiencies of minerals/ vitamins which may go undetected, lower utilization of minerals due to interaction or imbalances or mainly deficiencies of major nutrients particularly energy. Tamil Nadu: In North West agro climatic zone the growing and lactating cattle and buffaloes had lower plasma P level. The Ca to P level was wide in growing animals may be because of difference in the feeding practices adapted to raise growing cattle (grazing alone). In lactating cattle and buffaloes, the mineral deficiency/imbalance minimized due to additional supplementation of green forage/ feed/feed ingredients. The mineral status of fodder/feed supports this view. Sheep in north eastern zone had lower plasma copper level. The forage species in pastures also had similar low level of Cu. As growing and lactating sheep in this region are maintained exclusively on grazing, there was no variation in the plasma mineral status of sheep.