 The programme is States and Union Territories being covered under NSPAAD and collaborating centres responsible for implementing surveillance in each state LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 85 helping in developing a network of aquatic animal health laboratories across the country; diagnostic capability for detection of OIE/NACA-listed and emerging aquatic animal pathogens; the mechanism for first-time confirmation of exotic and emerging diseases and sending alerts/advisories to stakeholders; and providing scientific advice to the farmers. NSPAAD received positive commendations during the OIE Global Conference on Aquatic Animal Health held in Chile in April 2019 and the 2nd International Conference on Aquatic Animal Epidemiology (AquaEpi II) held in Thailand in November 2019. The surveillance programme is assisting the Department of Fisheries, Government of India in improved understanding of disease situations in aquatic animals in the country and with credible international disease reporting as an obligation under the WTO-SPS agreements. Field-based LAMP test for detection of white spot disease in shrimp: White spot syndrome virus (WSSV), the causative agent of white spot disease (WSD) in shrimp, causes severe economic losses in the shrimp industry. For the diagnosis of WSSV in the field, a rapid, sensitive, specific field-based loop- mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) protocol was developed. LAMP primers were designed based on ORF 121 gene. The target sequence of WSSV was amplified at a constant temperature of 65°C for 45 min and amplified LAMP products were visually detected in a closed tube system. This simple, closed tube, visual LAMP assay has great potential for diagnosing WSSV at the farm level. Lumiphage—A bacteriophage-based therapy as an alternative to antibiotics: Bacterial diseases such as vibriosis often cause significant mortalities of shrimp larvae and considerable economic loss to hatchery operators. The use of antibiotics poses concerns of residues and antimicrobial resistance. As an alternative to antibiotics, bacteriophages are developed for biocontrol of vibriosis in shrimp hatcheries. Bacteriophages also called ‘phages’, infect and kill specific disease-causing bacteria. They are specific to their host bacteria and harmless to other microflora and fauna. The product has been branded as Lumiphage, and comprises a cocktail of phages that can neutralize a wide range of specific pathogenic bacteria in the hatchery settings. The product was commercialized, and would be available to the shrimp hatchery operators for the prevention and control of bacterial diseases, as an alternative to the use of antibiotics. CIFE-ARGUNIL—A medicated fish feed mix: Developed a medicated feed mix, named as CIFE- ARGUNIL, which is effective for the control and treatment of Argulus and other ectoparasites of fishes.