 Many of these new and highly useful techniques, agronomic processes, equipment and products tend to remain unused or underutilised at the farmers end for want of commercial interventions to convert them into conveniently usable forms and make them available to farmers through marketing channels. To address the issue pertaining to income and employment generation through agro processing ICAR have set up an innovation based Agribusiness Incubation Centre at ICAR-Central Institute of Post- Harvest Engineering & Technology (ICAR-CIPHET), Ludhiana, Punjab. ITMU/ABI Centre offers their services to farmers/entrepreneurs/ unemployed youth/women entrepreneurs along with small and medium scale industries to get benefit from CIPHET developed agro based technologies for income and employment generation. Through this Centre, the Institute has transferred 47 technologies to 125 licensees and provided hand on training to more than 200 participants and has helped to create good number of jobs. Role of icar-ciphet for development of overall business environment throgh ABI Post-harvest processing sector has huge potential to employment and income opportunities in the rural catchment. However this opportunity is lying untapped for want of technological breakthroughs to suit requirements of rural entrepreneurs and adoption of food/ agro- processing as industry. The development of the country largely depends on its agricultural productivity and uplifting the farmers’ livelihood. Lack of awareness on the values of food processing, lack of technical know- how and hands-on skill development training experiences are some of the reasons for poor interests and fewer ventures in food/agro processing. Farmers can be easily made as food processing business entrepreneurs by properly skill development training and encouraging them. Providing incubation facilities to the market test their produce will also help new ventures coming in the sector. ICAR- CIPHET has developed many technologies and processes for the benefit of small and medium entrepreneurs of India in general and Punjab in particular. At present the developed technologies are demonstrated through farmers and trade fairs, exhibitions, trainings and demonstrations. However few days exposure to the technologies developed is inadequate to create entrepreneurial abilities among the trainees, who are often farmers or small entrepreneurs. Food/Agro processing have tremendous scope and potential to emerge into biggest industry, provided processing sector reached to the production catchment. ABI-CIPHET centres at CIPHET, Ludhiana/Abohar is constantly imparting hands on skill development training on selected commodities and provide incubation facilities, technical, financial and marketing know-how to interested entrepreneurs which is supporting the entrepreneurs to tackle challenges even after successful operation of the venture.