 Based on an assessment, the average rate of return on investment in agroforestry in terms of Cost: Benefit ratio varies from 1: 2.4 to 5.02. ICAR-ICRAF collaboration complemented and added value to ongoing research priorities of natural resource management in the country. It resulted in developing the techniques for use of geo-informatics in mapping agroforestry at national and sub-national level, formulation and approval of National Agroforestry Policy-2014, monitoring hub for tree-crop contributions to SDGs at multiple levels, and capacity development through nine international trainings on Carbon Finance Market, Carbon Stock Assessment, Carbon Trading Options, Climate-smart agroforestry options, Geospatial technologies, Design of Agroforestry experiments, Ecosystem services, Meta-analysis, Agroforestry Policy, Practice and Impact benefitting more than 100 participants. With ICRAF initiating a medium- term training program on “Tree Genomic Research” this year one ICAR scientist got benefitted through this co-learning capacity development program at ICRAF Nairobi. ICAR-ICRAF has immensely contributed for much required national level guidelines and certification standards for planting material. Agroforestry mapping technique developed will help in species identification, and the MIR Spectroscopy based assessment of soil health can be used for rapid assessment of important soil parameters. Farmers practicing diversified agroforestry system (trees planted in pulses/oilseeds) in Odisha With the collaboration, the profile and visibility of ICAR institutions is highlighted in the region, and globally. The best example is ICAR-ICRAF’s India experience on agroforestry policy resulted in launching of National Agroforestry Policy in Nepal, and the ASEAN Guidelines for Agroforestry Development. ICAR-ICRAF joint publications on Agroforestry are receiving global attention as indicated by the Visits/downloads, reads statistics in the region and globally. 74 WorldFish is an international, non-profit research organization that works to reduce hunger, malnutrition and poverty across Africa, Asia and the Pacific. With a 45-year track record of leading science, WorldFish generates scientific evidence and innovations for the inclusive and sustainable development of aquaculture and fisheries, making fish and aquatic foods a path towards shared prosperity, inclusive growth and healthy and resilient livelihoods. WorldFish is part of the CGIAR, the world’s largest agricultural innovation network, whose mission is to end hunger by 2030 through science to transform food, land and water systems under threat of climate change. Within CGIAR and the wider global agenda of agricultural research for development, WorldFish has a unique research mandate focusing on the role and contribution of aquatic foods and aquatic food systems to the global food systems transformation towards healthier and resilient diets.