 Bone-in chicken pickle: In processing technology of bone-in chicken pickle brine, dipping method was used. During storage different physico-chemical parameters, microbiological quality and sensory evaluation were studied. The product has shelf-life up to 6 months at 27±2ºC. Wool Lightweight quilt from coarse wool: Lightweight, soft and warm quilts were prepared from coarse wool. The protocol and mechanical device were developed to make uniform web from the raw and coarse wool fibres. The coarse wool and fine wool were mixed in the ratio of 75:25 to improve web quality. The delivery system of the semi-worsted card was modified to obtain a consistent and uniform web. The web of the desired thickness was converted into the quilt. The firmness to the quilt was imparted using a combination of different web layers, controlled felting of the web and stitching with a fine quality woven fabric. The subjective analysis of the quilt showed high rating (> 3.6 out of 5) for softness, warmth, breathability and comfort Integrating production with processing and converting waste into wealth A success story of a dairy start-up by Shri V. K. Narasimha Rao, Kulla Mallavaram village, East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh, with total 375 dairy animals including 70 cows and 85 buffaloes in milk and milk processing plant of 2,800 litre/day capacity was documented. Apart from own dairy farm daily milk production of 1,200 litre, the company also procures 1,800 litre of milk daily from farmers. The main products processed on regular basis are pasteurised milk (1,800 NABL Accreditation of Meat Speciation Laboratory The Meat speciation laboratory of ICAR-NRC on Meat, Hyderabad, was accredited by National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories and awarded with “ISO/IEC 17025: 2005 certificate”. Cultured meat Cultured meat is the meat produced by in vitro cultivation of animal cells rather than slaughtering of the meat animals. This technology allows meat to be cultured from cells in a fermentor or a bioreactor rather than harvested from livestock on a farm. A research project was conceptualized and implemented in collaboration with CSIR - Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad. This is the first research project in the country in the area of cultured meat production. Functional chicken seekh kebabs POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 97 litre/day), curd (300 litre/day) and butter milk (100 litre/ day). Further, the products processed on demand/order basis include full cream milk, ghee, paneer and khoa. The integrated dairy farm encompasses Dairy Farm, Milk Processing Unit, Feed Mixing Plant, Bio Gas Unit, Bio Gas based Power Generation Plant, Vermi Compost Farm, Azolla Farm and Organic Vegetable Farm. The by-products of the dairy farm such as dung and urine are collected systematically and used to produce biogas that is utilized to further generate electricity and cooking gas.