 Keeping the above facts and limitations in consideration, a new light weight mango harvester was designed and developed by ICAR-CISH, Lucknow under Farmer FIRST project and validated at farmers’ field. This tool is made from high density polyethylene fibre and therefore weighs 43.4% less than the metallic pole harvester. It is fitted with a removable high carbon steel (surgical grade) blade instead of mild steel as in old harvester. This tool is capable of cutting the pedicle up to 10 mm length, which is recommended by CODEX and facilitates harvesting up to 5 to 6 m height from the ground. The difference between the old and new harvesters is presented in Table 1. Construction details The main components of the harvester are cutting blades, frame, fruit collection net and aluminum pipe. The leaf shaped frame made from high density polyethylene (HDPE) is 390 mm long, 12 mm thick Injured (cracked) harvested fruit Indian Horticulture 54 and 210 mm wide at the center. Two sharp cutting blades (surgical grade) are mounted in the shape of inverted ‘V’ with screws on the external edge of the frame. In the main frame, a provision was made to attach an aluminum pole of 25 mm diameter. Fruit collection net made of nylon is tied on the periphery of the main frame. Operating procedure The operator has to hold the harvester with both hands and carry it near the target fruits. The operator has to ensure that fruits with pedicle lie inside the periphery of the tool and then pull it to cut the pedicle through shearing action and cut fruits are collected in the fruit collection net. The collection net can be emptied out by bringing it to the ground and flipping the tool upside down when it becomes heavy or after harvesting of sufficient fruits. About 650-900 fruits can be harvested with this tool per hour as per the distribution of the fruits in the tree canopy. The blades used in this tool are sharper and heavy duty and can be replaced when they wear out. New CISH mango harvester Fruit harvested by the new developed harvester Table 1. Comparison between old and new CISH mango harvester Parameter Old CISH mango harvester New CISH mango harvester Weight 380 gm 215 gm Material of construction Mild Steel HDPE (High Density Polyethylene) Type of blade used Mild Steel High carbon steel (Replaceable) Field capacity 600-800 fruits/hr 650-900 fruits/hr Fruits harvested per cycle 8-10 13-15 Cost per unit, (`) 200 150 Reduction in harvesting losses The newly developed harvester was distributed among farmers for field evaluation. There was very less (0.9%) fruit loss observed with new harvester developed by the institute as compared to old CISH harvester as well as other harvesting methods. Old CISH mango harvester New CISH mango harvester July–August 2021 55 Sometimes small sized fruits get damaged due to bruising though blades while pulling the harvester, however this can be avoided with proper attention.