 Pickle stimulates the secretion of various digestive juices and assist in Dr Saswati Parichha Training Associate (Home Science), Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Bhanjanagar, Ganjam (Orissa) 761 126  digestion. 2. Mango leather or papar: Ripe mangoes are taken. The juicy pulp is squeezed by hand. The pulp is stained through a stainless steel sieve or mosquito net cloth. The pulp is spread on bamboo mats and small quantity of sugar and oil is smeared over it. It is also spread on wooden trays whose bottom is smeared with oil. It is covered with a fine net cloth and placed in hot sunlight for drying. When the first layer dries, nother layer of pulp is spread over it for drying. This is repeated until the dried slab is about 3 inches thick. The leather is yellow in colour and delicious to taste. It can be kept for at least 6 months, if properly dried and stored. For longer duration of storing it is cut into small pieces and sweet pickles are made using the process followed for mango pickle. 3. Mango powder: Unripe and green mangoes are pealed, sliced and dried in sunlight for 10 days at least. It is kept after hand pounding as a powder. It is added to different food or curry preparations.B. Value addition: 1. Sour mango pickle: Ingredients required are: raw mango (½ kg), red chilli (10 g), turmeric powder (10 g), garlic (20 g), fenugreek seed, mustard and ajwain (10 g each), salt (to taste), mustard oil (100 ml) and hing (a pinch, roasted and ground). Washed and peeled mangoes are cut into pieces and their stones are removed. Salt and turmeric are added to the mangoes. It is kept in an earthen pot. Mustard, fenugreek and ajwain seeds are roastedand ground and then chilli powder, garlic pieces, grated ginger and mustard oil are added to the mango pieces. The resultant mixture is packed in a glass jar and its lid is closed tightly and kept in sunlight for 10 days. 2. Sweet pickle: Ingredients required are: raw mango (1/2 kg), turmeric powder (10 g), jaggery (300 g). chilli powder (10 g), jeera powder (25 g), fenugreek (15 g), salt (to taste) and ustard oil (100 ml). Mangoes are washed and cut into small pieces. Salt and turmeric powder are mixed with the  mangoes. It is kept in an earthen pot. Jeera powder and fenugreek are roasted and ground. Chilli powder, jeera powder and fenugreek powder are mixed with mango pieces and jaggery is added to the mixture. It is kept in hot sun for a week. Mustard oil is added into it and it is packed in a glass jar. The lid is tightened and the jar is kept in sunlight for 7 days. Mango jam: Ingredients required are: ripe mango pulp (1 kg), sugar (750 g) and lemon juice (20 tablespoonfull). Ripe mango fruits are washed. Fruits are peeled and cut into small pieces bydiscarding the stone. Pulp may also be collected by squeezing and staining through a mosquito net. Mango pulp, lemon juice and sugar are mixed well. It is cooked to a thick consistency until the end point is reached.