 Similarly, target for ‘Mean calving to conception (pregnancy) interval (days)’ may be fixed at 105 days, with interference level fixed at 120 days. In buffalo herd not meeting such targets, farmer must investigate aspects of calving and postpartum care, hygiene, supplementations of adequate nutrition especially proteins, minerals and energy rich diets, accurate detection of estrus to diminish chances of silent and missed estrus, and use of recent techniques such as in-camera monitoring. To ensure pregnancy at least by second estrus, insemination by a trained AI technician using semen from fertile bulls at right time is must. In Murrah buffaloes, ovulation occur 24-60 h (mean 42 h) after the onset of estrus or 6-21 h (mean 14 h) after end of estrus. To reduce the possibilities of unsuccessful breeding owing to variable estrus and ovulation period, assistance from a veterinarian can be availed for fixed-timed AI approach. To establish a pregnancy successfully, buffalo farmers must ensure accurate detection of estrus, AI by a skilled technician using fertile semen, pre-ovulatory follicle development and breeding in stress free conditions, synchrony of breeding with ovulation, post breeding stress free environment for luteal sufficiency, reproductive health suitable for implantation and subsequent pregnancy. To achieve a conception rate of about 60%, service per conception should be 1.6 – 1.7, effectively meaning dams conceive in 2 inseminations. Therefore, on an average target for ‘Mean interval from 1st service to conception (pregnancy) (days)’ should be 20 days with interference level fixed for the herd at 25 days. To achieve this, reduction of stress by maintaining optimum body condition score, extremes of climatic changes, and incorporation of flaxseed meals may be practiced. First service submission rate (%) and Overall pregnancy rate (%) Improving estrus detection rate influences calving interval greatly. A buffalo farmer must record all observed estrus during voluntary waiting period (VWP). This will help him to anticipate the date of next subsequent estrus and to improve the estrus detection rate. It is also useful in early detection of anestrus (acyclical) dams. For a buffalo herd, First service submission rate may be fixed at 80%, with interference level at 70%. Lower than expected result in this parameter could be due to poor housing conditions affecting females to exhibit overt signs of estrus, poor lighting which may hamper estrus detection, irregular estrus detection schedule, and non-recording of signs of estrus in individual animals. The submission rate is greatly influenced by the time interval to the resumption of normal cyclical activity after parturition, the detection of estrus in cows that have resumed normal cyclical activity and their presentation for AI or natural service.