 In the second year, these vegetative buds produce the fruiting shoots, which are pruned again. The arms on lateral shoots are pruned and allowed to fruit for 3–4 years. After this, the lateral is removed from the main branches and other laterals are selected and pruned accordingly to maintain a balance between vegetative and reproductive growth for continuity in fruit production. In summer pruning, the shoot is cut beyond 6–8 buds from the last fruit during June–July. Pollination management for successful kiwifruit production Kiwifruit comes into bearing after 2–3 years of planting, but for quality fruit production it comes into bearing after 4–5 years. Kiwifruit is a unique crop because it has separate male and female flowers on different vines, and the flowers don’t produce nectar to attract honey bees. This can make it challenging for the flowers of kiwifruit to be effectively pollinated and result in smaller yields. To address this, kiwifruit growers often resort to artificial pollination or hand pollination, which involves manually collecting pollen from the male flowers and transferring it to the female flowers. One male flower is enough for pollination of five female flowers. But this method takes a lot of practice. This method ensures that the flower receives enough pollen and can increase the overall pollination percentage and yield of the kiwifruit crop. Optimizing nutrient levels for kiwifruit cultivation For kiwifruit vines, it’s generally advised to apply a basal dose of 20 kg FYM along with 0.5 kg of NPK fertilizers (15% N) per year of age. Fully bearing vines (8 years and above) should receive 60–80 kg FYM, 800 g N, 560 g P, and 1200 g K per vine annually. FYM, P, and K should be applied during December–January, while N is given in two equal dressings - half before bud-burst and the remaining dose at the onset of monsoon in July. To enhance efficiency, it’s recommended to apply 2/3rd of the NPK fertilizers through drip irrigation in eight equal split doses, starting from bud burst, with 10-day intervals. This approach leads to a 25% reduction in fertilizer usage and improved yield of quality fruits compared to traditional methods. Balancing water requirement in kiwifruit cultivation Kiwifruit cultivation demands a substantial amount of water, especially because of the vine’s large leaves, which increase water requirements. In regions with irregular rainfall, supplemented irrigation is vital for successful kiwifruit production. Young vines need more frequent irrigation than mature ones, while bearing vines should be irrigated when soil moisture reaches 20% depletion from field capacity. Drip irrigation is the preferred method as it can lead to higher yields of quality fruits. During summer, fully grown vines require 80–100 litre of water daily to account for transpiration from their 16–17 m2 canopy area.