 It is sprinkled on the adjoining four lines of the groundnut. Farmers also assume that this practice facilitates the harvesting of the groundnut. Harvesting and recycling is done in different ways according to the local situations (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Patel (1992d) 55 Private and community fodder wood blocks Fodder tree forests in the vicinity of villages either on the forest land or community lands/private lands are jointly managed by the managers to meet their fodder need for cattle during lean months, ie winter season. Few species thus managed are Quercus spp. (oaks), Grewia ooptiva (buel), celtis australis (khirak), Bauhinia variegata (kachnar), Albizzia chinensis (ohi) etc. (Mid and high hills, foot hills and sub mountaineous regions of Himalayas). Verma (1998) 56 Mixed cropping to meet family needs and risk distribution Intercropping in fingermillet is done with sorghum, pigeonpea, avare, niger, mustard to meet family needs and also to use land and light efficiently, to insure against the risk, crop failure, mustard is planted as trap crop (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 57 Indicator plants to determine irrigation requirement Some plants like sunflower are sown along with the main crop to be used as indicators for determining irrigation requirement. These plants determining irrigation requirement. These plants are sensitive to water deficiency and hence show symptoms of drying under water stress. The farmers can thus predict the time of irrigation (Pondicherry). Panduinathan Govindaraju (2000- 2001) 30 CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 58 Cropping systems adopted by Malis of Koraput district and it’s improvement Koraput district, located in the Southern part of Orissa is dominated by tribals belonging to different Tribes. Besides, a laborious group called Malis who have settled near the perennial streams are the main crop growers of the district. They invariably take up multiple cropping as an insurance against total crop failure. Although the crop yield and total return is not very alluring but the farmers are convinced of getting assured return for their sustainance. A number of multiple cropping systems, those have been practiced by the above farmers in villages like Malidoliamba, Chalonput, Pakjhola and Tentuliguda are ginger + maize + brinjal + runner bean; cabbage + potato + mustard + greens + chilli; brinjal + onion + maize + pea + runner bean; and okra + chilli + radish + greens + runner bean (Koraput, Orissa). Das et al. (2002) 59 Jhuming or shifting cultivation It is also known as podu cultivation that involves cultivation of crops on steep slopes by clearing forest, bushes etc. upto stump level in December to January, leaving the cut material for drying and then finally burning it to make the land ready for dibbling of seeds of different crops before the onset of rainy season.