 Application of 20 kg N/ha through castor-cake would be the best option for getting higher yield of kalmegh. In the area of Natural Resource Management, major accomplishments under soil resource inventory are the DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 4 generation of soil map of India on 1:1 million scale; development of regional-level soil-information system for north-eastern region; and preparation of district soil resource atlases, covering at least one district in each state. Under resource conservation and management, salient features are the high yield of soybean from broad bed and furrow; identification of Acacia nilotica for rehabilitation of the degraded ravine soils adjacent to river Yamuna; and suitability of A. nilotica and Casuarina equisetifolia combination for reclamation of saline waterlogged Vertisols. Significant findings under soil fertility and nutrient management had been the improvement in wheat yield and soil organic matter owing to rice-residue incorporation into soil along with phosphocompost application; attainment of higher yield of maize and groundnut on substitution of inorganic fertilizers with farmyard manure; and enhancement of nodulation and seed yield of blackgram and greengram with co-inoculation of Rhizobium and antagonistic bacteria along with Azospirillum/Azotobacter. Prediction of rainfall in coastal Orissa using different probability distribution models, and use of CROPWAT (crop water) model for water requirement and irrigation scheduling of pigeonpea and cotton in Gujarat under rainfed and irrigated conditions, are the significant results under water management. Important achievement under soil salinity and coastal ecosystem is the mapping of saline and waterlogged soils of Haryana using remote sensing landsat TM data. Major accomplishments under rainfed research include increase in grain and straw yields of rice by recycling of rice straw along with mushroom spend substrate in rice-based farming system in western coast of Goa; better performance of turmeric (7.32 tonnes/ha) when grown under the shade of 2 years old guava tree; and preparation of an integrated management plan for implementation in Bada Khera Watershed in Bundi, Rajasthan. Higher yield in rice through combined use of NPK and sulphitation pressmud; and identification of eight promising accessions of Sesbania and two of Crotalaria for green-manure are the highlights of crop production. In area of weed management, Zygogramma bicolorata proved to be a safe biocontrol agent of Parthenium hysterophorus weed. In farming system research, significant findings include at par performance of feeds based on chicken liver meal and squid meal with high-priced commercial feeds; and extension of storage life of indigenous fruits (bread fruit and bimbli) when packed in 0.4 mm LDPE bags with 0.5% ventilation.