 □ Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser : 1288 Use of babool {Acacia nilotica) and jamun (Syzygium cumini) bark extract to cure foot-and-mouth disease in animals : A paste of babool bark and jamun bark is applied on the hooves of the FMD-affected animal thrice daily, costing Rs 2-5 per animal. In this method the disease is cured up to 70%. Shri Syed Musawwir Ali, mohalla Furshori Tola, Bund gali, Badaun, district Bareilly Location of use of the ITK Experimenters : This is practised in many villages of Baduan and Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh. : Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) Dr D. Swarup, Principal Scientist and Head, Division of Medicine, IVRI, Izatnagar and Dr T.J. Rasool, Principal Scientist, Dr R.K. Singh, Head, Division of Virology, Dr V Bhanuprakash, Scientist and Dr Ram Naresh, Scientist, IVRI, Mukteswar, Nainital (Uttaranchal) Birsa Agricultural University (BAU) Dr S. Haque, Head and Dr P. Shekhar, Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine, Ranchi Veterinary College, Ranchi 834 006 (Jharkhand) West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences (WBUAFS), Dr N.R. Pradhan, Professor and Head and Dr C. Lodh, Lecturer, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Veterinary and Animal Science, Kolkata 700 037 (West Bengal) METHODOLOGY Experiment IVRI Use of babool bark and jamun bark decoction was found highly effective in treatment of foot lesions in clinical cases of FMD during 2003. The ITK was found cost effective and had easy accessibility. Therefore it was recommended for in-vitro antiviral activity trials. Preparation of extracts: Aqueous extracts of babool and jamun bark were prepared as per standard protocol and were put to solubility test. The aqueous extracts of babool and jamun were readily dissolved in sterile distilled water. A 10 mg/ml stock of extracts was made in sterile distilled water and filtered separately using 0.22 mm filters. The filtrates were used for cytotoxicity in BHK2| and Vero cell lines. Cytotoxicity study: Initially the following concentrations of the extracts were prepared in GMEM/EMEM with 1 % new born calf serum or Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY bovine-calf serum from the stock solutions. BHK21 or Vero cells were grown to confluence for 48 hr in 24-well plates. Then the monolayers were washed with GMEM/EMEM containing 1 % NBCS/BCS and antibiotics. Later each of the extracts concentrations in GMEM/EMEM with 1% NBCS/BCS in quadruplicates was fed on to the confluent monolayer with appropriate controls. The plates were incubated at 37°C under 5% CO2 for 96 hr and up to 144 hr. The cells were observed at 24 hr intervals for cytotoxicity and the following changes were noted.