 Soil erosion is checked by growing perennial grass like moa along the border. Ploughing and sowing across the slope as well as fallowing of land are found to be an effective technology to conserve soil and water. Gular, jamun, ber, aonla, babool etc. are also planted around the bunds to conserve soil and water. Keywords: terraces, channels, moa, grass People of lower Himachal Pradesh plant banana because (i) it is a source of cash, (ii) its root system is quite extensive, which helps hold a big chunk of soil, and (iii) its broad big leaves reduce the force of the monsoon rain-drops. Thus rain-drops cannot hit the soil directly, which reduces hazards of splash erosion. Keywords: banana, soil erosion, splash erosion The farmers of Jhunjhunu and Nagore districts in Rajasthan grow kair (Capparis decidua) plant on borders of fields to prevent shifting of sand and entry of wild animals in the field. Kair is a desert plant that can grow under extreme hot and dry conditions. Its leaves are small, acute, spinous and pointed. The tree has a big canopy and the roots hold the soil to prevent soil erosion. Canopy reduces the velocity of the storms or hot winds (loo). Fruits of kair are rich in nutritive value. Unripe green fruits are used as vegetable and also for making pickles. Its bark has medicinal properties such as analgesic, diaphoretic, laxative, anthelminthic, which cures cough and asthma, ulcers and boils. It is useful in vomiting and piles. The fruit stops foul breath, biliousness and discharges of People of lower parts of Himachal Pradesh Facilitator: Dr L R Verma MRDA, 4 Summon Hill Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 Dr Dheeraj Singh, Asst. Professor (Pomology) and Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator urinary bladder. The fresh young leaves are crushed and soaked in water. This extract is filtered, and butter is added to this extract in small quantity, which gives relief from pain of bruises after a fall. Keywords: kair, storm, pickle, loo, medicinal property Content 3 Tillage and Intercultural Management Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2777 Ploughing by samkor method for rabi and kharif sowing Samkor an indigenous crop cultivation practice Farmers of Jhadol area of Udaipur district in Rajasthan follow samkor method of ploughing. The farmers plough the field with desi plough and start ploughing from one corner of the field to inner side while keeping the ploughed field in their right hand side. In this practice heavy ploughing is done up to a depth of 1-1 1/2 feet, and every corner is ploughed. It is considered good for moisture conservation in kharif, and for crop growth in rabi.