 This method enables measurement of various parameters including shoot/root growth, architecture, leaf greenness, leaf area, leaf rolling, senescence, growth rates, tillering, early vigour, plant height, phenology, biomass, Nanaji Deshmukh Plant Phenomics Centre RGB visual imaging convex hull, compactness, and eccentricity. IR thermal imaging: Infrared energy (8 to 13 µm) emitted by plants is detected and converted into an electrical signal by an imaging sensor known as a microbolometer. This technology allows measurement of tissue temperature, which is primarily influenced by evapotranspiration. IR thermal imaging is valuable for inferring stomatal conductance and assessing plant health under biotic and abiotic stress conditions. Chlorophyll fluorescence imaging: This technique exploits the emission of long-wave fluorescence by plant tissues following absorption of short-wave light, depending on the composition of molecules with inherent fluorescence properties. Chlorophyll molecules absorb light at short wavelengths and emit fluorescence at red/ far-red wavelengths (680 and 735 nm). By measuring November–December 2024 83 chlorophyll fluorescence, parameters such as maximum quantum efficiency of PSII, photochemical quenching, and non-photochemical quenching can be calculated. These parameters serve as sensitive indicators of resource deficiency, with the goal of evaluating input efficiency and key physiological traits related to yield and stress tolerance across multiple plants at specific growth stages. This process is enabled by high-throughput phenomics platforms. The range of individual phenotypic traits and the spatio-temporal dynamics of phenotypic data generated in phenomics exceed those of traditional phenotyping methods, providing unparalleled depth and precision. Unlocking genetic potential–Role of high- throughput phenotyping in horticulture The role of high-throughput phenotyping (HTP) in modern plant breeding is pivotal, enabling efficient analysis of large plant populations and detailed trait acquisition. The adoption of HTP techniques and tools has revolutionized plant breeding by accelerating trait evaluation and selection processes. Here are several key functions of HTP in Horticulture: Measurement of morphological traits: Morphological traits such as colour, size, shape, and texture are crucial for the appearance and visual assessment of horticultural produce. However, high-throughput phenotyping platforms are needed for faster, objective results. Image analysis is increasingly used to quantify these traits across crops. For example, grape berry colour, a key breeding trait, can be categorized into noir (red, blue, black) and non- noir (green, white) groups, which are easily distinguished Control Drought Thermal IR Imaging Chlorophyll fluorescence imaging availability and environmental stresses. Near-infrared (NIR) imaging: The reflectance of plants within the 900 to 1700 nm range is influenced by water content.