 Small and medium lac processing plants and value-added products of natural resins and gums are proving a major source of livelihood for different stakeholders involved in the lac producing states of the country. 7. Way forward 7.1. Sensors, robotics and drone-led automation and mechanization Precision farming technologies based on micro-processor and decision support systems for enhancing input application efficiency in production agriculture has been initiated at ICAR. Achievements in Agricultural Engineering in Independent India 305 The project aimed at development of micro-processor-based precision equipment for site- specific precise application of inputs such as seeds, fertilizers, herbicides and water. The research in this area was initiated during 2009 and continued later under CRP on Precision Farming. A few potential precision agricultural technologies such as ground speed sensor based fixed rate seed cum fertilizer drill, low cost SPAD meter, spectral reflectance (NDVI) based fertilizer applicator, uniform rate sprayer, real time soil moisture-based sprinkler irrigation system, automatic irrigation system for rice, automatic yield monitor for indigenous combine harvesters etc. are some of the strategic research components. The ICAR is geared to address the future challenges in agricultural engineering research and includes application of AI and IoT based appropriate technologies for timeliness, precision, maximizing input use efficiency, reducing losses, value addition and conserving energy and natural resources. The emerging smart agriculture mechanization is combination of precision farm management tools (GPS/ GNSS, DSS, and VRT), end user applications (apps, mobiles, machines, Agri-bots) and data solutions (data IoT, information, and tech empowered tools). These technologies not only make agriculture machinery smart and efficient but also help making agriculture more sustainable. The focus will be on development of precision machinery for improved input use efficiency; autonomous guidance and real time monitoring system for tractors, power tillers and self-propelled machinery; application of drones for spraying and crop health scouting; AI and IoT-based smart irrigation and fertigation systems for field and horticultural crop; agricultural robots for harvesting, post-harvest handling of crops and commodities. Future agriculture will be dominated by precision systems using cloud-based data systems supported by smart tractors, unmanned aerial vehicles, wireless technology and unmanned autonomous vehicles for multi-purpose field works. The focus will be on simplifying these technologies with cost-effective features enabling higher adoption. 7.2. Fruit maturity testing The visible and near infrared (VIS and NIR) based ‘on-tree non-destructive techniques’ for quick detection of maturity and ripening stage for mango has been developed for on-site/on- field application.