58 DAT, Days after treatment RESULTS AND DISCUSSION Results obtained from the experiments conducted at CRRI, Cuttack and in farmers' fields during 2002 revealed that gundhi bug infested the paddy in spite of parasi application. But there was decrease in population for the treatment where it was applied after infestation and applied as fresh these have not been presented. CONCLUSION Gundhi bug population was reduced by both fresh leaves and planting of twigs of parasi at the time after gundhi bug infestation. Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser Location of use of the ITK Experimenters : 365 Planting of wild Saccharum spontaneum in paddy field for controlling leaf-folder : Wild sugarcane (Saccharum spontaneum) twigs of height 4 to 5 feet and 4 to 5 cm diameter are planted after 15 days of transplanting in rice field for control of leaf-roller. These erected branches harbour the predators at the time of occurrence of leaf-roller, thereby suppressing the incidence of pest. About 90% farmers in the Benakunda village of Ganjam district in Orissa adopt this practice. Rice case worm, Nimphula depunctalis Guenee (Lepidoptera: pyralidae) is an insect pest of rice in low lying area and waterlogged conditions. Larvae make their cases by cutting top portion of the leaf and rolling the leaf section around their body with the help of silky threads produced by their saliva. The head end remains open. Larvae remain within the case while floating on water surface. They crawl up rice plants to feed remaining in their cases. The larvae feed by scrapping patches of green tissue from young tender leaves, leaving only the white epidermis. The pattern of damage is not uniform because the larvae floating in their cases are often carried to one side of the paddy field by wind or water currents. Damaged plants become stunted and produce fewer tillers. Wild sugarcane, Saccharum spontaneum grows near river banks on marshy lands. The plant is used by the farmers of Bhanjanagar area (Ganjam district) to control case worm in rice. Shri Birendra Nayak, village Bhanjanagar, district Ganjam (Orissa) 761 126 : Village Benakunda, block Bhanjanagar, district Ganjam (Orissa) 761126 : Dr (Ms) Mayabini Jena, Senior Scientist and Shri K.S. Behera Senior Scientist, Department of Entomology, Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack (Orissa) 753 006 METHODOLOGY Experiment Field experiments were carried out during the rainy (kharif) season of 2002, 2003 and 2004 at two locations, i.e. at (i) CRRI, Cuttack and (ii) farmers' fields in the villages. At CRRI, Cuttack the treatments taken were: planting Saccharum spontaneum at 7 days after transplanting (DAT), 14 DAT, and after infestation, foliar spray of insecticide (imidacloprid) @ 0.05 kg ai/ha and untreated control. Seeds were sown on 25-28 Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Fig. 1. Implantation of S.