 The maggot wounds were seen more in cow (58.3%) and buffalo (25.0%) as compared to other animals. This observation might be due to population of the cattle. Among the sites the most  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Fig. 7. Animal-wise incidence of maggot wound Fig. 9. Turpentine oil (Group-I) Fig. 8. Region-wise incidence of maggot wounds in animals Fig. 10. Kumati fruit pulp (Group-II) Fig. 11. Neem oil (Group-III) Fig. 12. Kumati fruit pulp + neem oil mixture (Group-IV) common are involved was the perennial region involving tail, vulva and pelvis (33.30%), followed by head and neck (25.0%). This may be due to soiling of the region with excreta and waste body fluid and poor maintenance of region by the cattle owners. 2. The incidence was seen more in the animals reared in the semi-intensive system, which is a common practice in the  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY metro city. 3.The extent of the damage was more at the region where there is more muscle and 50-60 larvae were removed from such area. In contrast, in the area close to the musculo-skeletal border the number of larvae was less. 4.The larvicidal effect of all these preparations both in-vitro and in-vivo did not vary much. The effect of the neem oil and kumati fruit pulp and neem oil mixture showed good results, except that time taken in Group IV little more (delayed effect) than in Group I. 5.The results of the clinical symptoms like discharge, healing pattern and time and duration of treatment is encouraging and more or less similar in Group I and Groups where turpentine oil and a mixture of kumati fruit pulp and neem oil was used respectively. 6.This may be because of the chemical action of the turpentine oil, and the chemical content and combination of the kumati and neem oil mixture. Besides, in Group IV the neem oil and the paste act as coverage for this type of wounds that reduces the topical dressing commitment and cost. 7.The fly responsible for the problem is Chrysomia bezziana (100%) in all the cases and the reasons for this are the climatic condition and domination of the fly in and around Chennai. 8.The bacterial organisms isolated from the wounds were Staphylococcus and Streptococcus (41.15%) besides others like Klebsiella, Pseudomonas, Clostridium and E.coli (4.17%). The samples tested during the treatments on third day or later days also showed a few organisms suggesting that these preparations are not effective against microbes and it cannot be expected that this type of infected due the exposure to atmosphere. 9. In the present study the preparation of turpentine oil (Group-I) and kumati fruit pulp mixture (Group-IV) did not have any significant effect on the different stages of larva. These preparations are not 100% effective on day 2, in regards to larvicidal effect especially at the region of musculo- skeletal border (base of the horn and coronary border of the hoof).