 Bhaley is prepared also from a mixture of Phaseolus mungo (mah) and Phaseolus aureus (moong). Mah and moong are soaked overnight in water in equal proportions and ground with sil-butta. Spices, bhabri, jhau, asafoetida, chilli, and salt are added according to taste. This paste is finally prepared as circular roties, which are fried in mustard or vegetable oil. 4. Bhaley is prepared also from the mixture of kachnaar (Bavhinia variegata) fruits and Phaseolus mungo (mah). First mah is soaked overnight in water and ground with sil – butta, mixed thoroughly , and then finely-ground fruits of Bavhinia variegata are spread over it as small pieces or powder. Spices, chilli, salt and asafoetida are added according to taste. These ingredients are thoroughly kneaded, and circular roties are prepared, which are ultimately fried in vegetable oil. This dish is served with curd. 5. Specific methods are also being employed by the local people for preparing food items in absence of bhabri and jhau. This ethnic food is prepared almost in every household as a traditional food item since time immemorial. on specific or festive occasions like Diwali, Holi, birthday and during winters. People’s perception about bhaley in given below: (i) cheep and easy to prepare; (ii) the raw materials are available locally; (iii) considered highly nutritive and energetic; (iv) helps in curing gastric problems; (v) highly delicious and hygienic; (vi) children, men, women all enjoy this ethnic food and thereare no discomforts by using bhaley; (vii) this food item also symbolizes the culture of the area and preparation method also varies a little with the area; and (viii) though all women relish this food items in some of the areas it was found that pregnant women avoid this due to very heavy calorific value. Experiment The following parameters were analysed for bhaley: 1. Proximate nutritive analysis: protein, fats, ash, fibre, carbohydrate, calorific value, vitamin C, B 1, B 2 2. Fatty acid profile: lauric, myristic, palmitic, stearic acid, oleic, linoleic and linolenic acid 3. Microbiological evaluation (Standard Plate count and Coliform count). (i) This analysis was done in the Food Safety and Analytical Quality Control Laboratory; Central Food Technological Research Institute, Mysore, and Department of Biotechnology, H.P. University. (ii) AOAC: Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists, edn. 17. 2000. Association of  ETHNIC FOOD Table 2. Analysis of raw food samples bhabri (Ocimum basilicum) Parameter Results Test method Moisture (% by wt) 12.7 AOAC, edn. 17, 2000, 953.07 Ash (% by wt) 14.0 920.93 Protein (% by wt) 15.4 984.13 Fat (% by wt) 3.4 991.36 Crude fibre (% by wt) 10.6 962.09 Carbohydrates by difference (% by wt) 43.9 Nutritive Value of Indian Foods, Gopalan C. et al.; NIN, ICMR, 1996 Calorific value (K.cal/100 g) 268 Nutritive Value of Indian Foods, Gopalan C. et al.; NIN, ICMR, 1996 Vitamin C (mg/100 g) 10.0 AOAC, edn.