 Emphasis in the assessment will be on the contributions and achievements of the individual in relation to the requirements of the job and the duties assigned to the scientist during the period of assessment. (ii) The assessment of the scientists will take into consideration the following: (a) The material furnished in the five-yearly assessment pro- forma; (b) Research project files maintained by the scientist; (c) Bio-data and career information (various posts held ete.) of the scientist throughout his service in the ICAR; (d) CCRs for the past five years; (e) Personal discussion, if so desired by the concerned scientist. 4. The scientist being assessed should carefully fill in Parts II and III of the enclosed proforma keeping in mind his activities in the past five years. Part IV of the proforma is to be filled in by the reviewer only. The reviewer shall be a scientist not below the rank of a grade S-4 scientist 52 ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE supervising the work of the reviewee. In cases where the reviewer has supervised the work of the reviewee for a very short period of time, say less than six months, he shall be required to consult the other officers of the corresponding level who may have also supervised the work of the reviewee for a correspondingly long period. The competent authority will issue separate orders indicating clearly the reviewer for each post. 5. After the proforma has been completed by the scientist being assessed (reviewee), he will pass it on to the reviewer. The reviewer shall then carefully go through the information provided by the reviewee and the evaluation done by him. He shall fill part IV of the proforma. 6. Such a completed proforma will then be sent to Director/DDG/ Director-General, ICAR where Part V of the proforma shall be filled in by the concerned authorities. In the case of Project Co-ordinators and other scientists who are in independent charge of their projects, the Director will have the completed proforraa sent to DDG/DG, ICAR. The Director will enclose his comments in a separate sheet for critical evaluation of the performance oj the reviewee by the concerned authorities at the ICAR Head- quarters. In cases where a Director has left the ICAR system through retirement or otherwise, and in cases where the reviewee is an existing or ex-Head of Division and his Director has left the ICAR system, Part V or Part IV of the proforma, as the case may be, shall be filled in by the concern- ed DDG at the ICAR Headquarters. 1. The Director/DDG/ICAR, as the case may be, shall then carefully go through the proforma and in case the Director/DDG/ DG, ICAR notices marked discrepancies between the reviewer's and the revie- wee's evaluation, he may give his comments on the discrepancies. In case the Director/DDG/DG, ICAR disagrees with the assessment of both the reviewer and the reviewee, he may give his reasons for disagreement.