 Targeted immobilization of Y-bearing spermatozoa and modulation of oviduct milieu for skewing sex ratio towards female offspring in dairy cattle: The sex specificity of the four identified potential proteins was assessed using FISH and Western Blotting techniques and found that all the four proteins were specific to Y-Chromosome bearing spermatozoa. A targeted immobilization method was developed, using iron nano particles conjugated with the developed antibodies (polyclonal), to immobilize the Y-Chromosome bearing spermatozoa. Cattle embryos were produced through in vitro fertilization technique using the semen enriched with X-Chromosome bearing spermatozoa (using the developed Y-chromosome bearing sperm immobilizing method) and sex of the embryos was assessed. The developed immobilization technique resulted in production of 72-76% of female embryos. Similarly, a model for assessment of sperm- oviduct binding was developed for cattle and found Production of multiple copies of elite buffalo bulls using animal cloning technology Thirteen clones of 6 superior breeding male and one elite buffalo female were produced. Out of that, seven copies were produced from a single superior breeding bull M29 and three copies were from first ranked progeny tested bull Mu-4354. A calf of an earlier cloned bull Hisar-Gaurav was also successfully re-cloned. The cloning efficiency was improved from 1% to 6-8% using different combination of epigenetic modifier to increase cloned embryo production and efficient management of recipient and born calves. Through in vitro fertilization test and in vivo artificial insemination, fertility of the cloned bulls (n=4) was comparable to non-cloned breeding bulls. Further, frozen semen of cloned bulls was used for artificial insemination and it produced more than 60 parentage verified calves with normal health at both centers ICAR-CIRB, ICAR- NDRI farm, other dairy farms and farmers’ farm, which indicates fertility and breeding value of cloned bull. Progenies born through artificial insemination using semen of cloned bull CRISPR/CAS9 guided functional analysis of genes regulating early embryonic survival in buffalo For in vitro over-expression studies, PTGES and PTGFS coding sequences (462 bp PTGES and 972 bp PTGFS) were cloned in CT-GFP Fusion vector followed by sequence confirmation of the clones. Buffalo endometrial epithelial cells were transfected with PTGES and PTGFS constructs followed by screening of transfected cells by GFP fluorescence. There was slight up regulation of PTGES and PTGFS mRNAs in transfected cells as compared to control. Cloning of two sgRNAs against COX-2 gene into CRISPR/ Cas9 expression vector (PX459) was confirmed by sequencing. The resultant CRISPR/Cas9-sgRNA constructs were subsequently used for transfection into in vitro cultured buffalo endometrial and luteal cells.