 In each KVK, the specialists organized and conducted series of need-based capacity development programs at regular intervals to bridge the knowledge and skill gaps of farming communities and other stakeholders. KVKs engaged with farmers, individually and collectively, at all stages of agricultural production and post-harvest management. KVKs facilitated farmers in procurement of inputs, grading, packaging and selling farm produce by linking them with specific agencies. In select cases, individual farmers, farmwomen and rural youth were provided with incubation support and initial handholding. KVK laboratories, production units and farm resources were shared in the incubation process to enable the budding entrepreneurs to engage in production, packing, labelling and marketing of technological products. The Prime Minister set the goal of doubling farmers’ income by 2022, the year when the nation celebrates the Platinum Jubilee of its Independence. To celebrate 75th anniversary of Independence in a befitting manner, a document of 75,000 success stories of farmers whose incomes have been doubled was considered just and apt. A format was designed and shared with all the KVKs for creating database of successful farmers. The format consisted of three parts: (i) profile of a farmer including name, address, age, education, landholding size and a passport size photograph; (ii) information related to crops grown, livestock reared and enterprise activities and the production and income details at bench mark year 2016-17; and (iii) the information on the same after KVK interventions (2020-21). Based on the individual farmer’s data, two documents are prepared, one as an e-document consisting state- and district-wise presentation of successful farmers and the other as synthesis and analysis of data. The household income in 2020-21 has been compared with that in the 2016-17 Doubling Farmers Income xvii to know the extent of change in income and in its constituents. Annual net income during 2020-21 as well as during 2016-17 are estimated at nominal prices. Price effect because of higher minimum support price or enhancement in general prices is also there in the estimates. A summary statement on technological and other interventions and their impact on household income is highlighted in this document for each State and Union Territory. Documentation of success stories was taken up to infuse confidence that doubling of farmers’ income is possible through technology adoption. It justifies that scientific knowledge, when integrated with farmers’ experience, can accelerate the agricultural development process. The document can serve as reference material in identifying possible pathways and strategies for further enhancement in farmers’ income.