 The period between harvesting of wheat crop and transplanting of rice crop (May-June) can be utilized for growing of green manure crops. Dhaincha (Sesbania sesban) is very suitable cover crop which can be grown for green manuring. Sowing of dhaincha @30 kg seed/ ha is done in first week of May. The crop is ploughed up in 3rd week of June (45-50 DAS). Transplanting of rice is done after one week of ploughing of dhaincha crop. Apply 2/3rd dose of NPK fertilizers in fields where green manuring is done. Water Conservation practices Š Š Transplanting of rice requires huge volume of water. It can be saved by bringing change in planting method of the crop. Direct seeding of rice crop has been found very successful technology and is helpful in conservation of water resources. Š Š Levelling of fields with laser Level Machine helps in water saving in transplanting conditions. Livestock production and management Cattle Management Month of May Š Š Temperatures are high during this month and some areas experience severs dust storms accompanied by thunder showers. Š Š Heat related diseases in animals that can be seen to affect animals during this time are fever, dehydration, decrease in body salts, loss of appetite and decrease in productivity. Š Š Animals should be protected from the heat and strong, hot, and dry summer afternoon winds (loo). Š Š Adequate efforts should be made for fodder collection/purchase and storage for periods of shortage. Š Š To avoid loss of essential body salts in animals ensure that a salt mixture in appropriate quantity is mixed with the feed and water and given to animals. Š Š Depending upon the season, the content of the animal feed should be changed. Currently increase the quantity of wheat chaff and Jowar in the feed. Š Š Give dairy animals a balanced feed so that their milk production capacity is enhanced. Š Š Deworming of animals should be carried out. Š Š Maize, perennial grasses and other fodder species should be harvested now. Š Š Sheep should be sheared during this month. Month of June Š Š Temperatures are high during this month and some areas experience severs dust storms accompanied by thunder showers. Š Š Heat related diseases in animals that can be seen to affect animals during this time are fever, dehydration, decrease in body salts, loss of appetite and decrease in productivity. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 48 Š Š Animals should be protected from the heat and strong, hot, and dry summer afternoon winds (loo). Š Š Adequate efforts should be made for fodder collection/purchase and storage for periods of shortage. Š Š To avoid loss of essential body salts in animals ensure that a salt mixture in appropriate quantity is mixed with the feed and water and given to animals. Š Š Depending upon the season, the content of the animal feed should be changed. Currently increase the quantity of wheat chaff and Jowar in the feed. Š Š Give dairy animals a balanced feed so that their milk production capacity is enhanced.