 Irrigation First irrigation is applied just after transplanting and rest irrigations are to be done as per need. Normally, the crop requires 2-3 irrigation in it’s crop duration. Manures and fertilizers Apply 10-15 tonnes of well rotten FYM or apply 5 tonnes of Vermicompost at the time of field preparation. Synthetic fertilizer should be applied on soil test basis but in general, apply nitrogen, phosphorous and potassium in the ration of 80:40:40 Kg/ha. Full dose of phosphorous and potassium at the time of transplanting and nitrogen dose should be applied in 4 splits in equal quantity at equal interval and 3 splits before flowering and 4th dose after first picking of flowers. Weed management To control weeds in the early crop growth stage is an essential interculture operation otherwise the crop yield may get affected. The uncontrolled weed growth caused about 35% reduction in the dry flower yield as compared to weed free condition. Generally 3-4 hand weedings are required for good crop. Chemically, there are so many herbicides for weed control in chamomile crop such as 2,4-D, atrazine, trifluralin and oxyfluorfen. Application of oxyfluorfen @ 0.6 kg/ha give better result. Pest and diseases Insects: Aphids, mealybugs, spider mites cause severe damage to the chamomile plants. To control the insect attack and their infestation, (may) use natural bio-control agent like lady bird beetle or wasp and for mealybug control, spray neem oil which is an effective agent. Diseases: Powdery mildew: Formation of white powder growth on the foliage parts of the plant. To control this, spray any of the following fungicide such as captan/bavistin/ Dithane M-45 @ 0.2-0.3%. Damping off: Plant wilts and dies. To control this disease, drain out the excess moisture from the field and reduce the nitrogen dose. Root or crown rot: It cause yellowing of leaves and then branches to turn brown and death of the plant. To control this, reduce too much irrigation, standing water is the main cause. Chamomile flowers after picking Indian Horticulture 10 Flower picking This is an important and laborious operation in chamomile crop. So for picking purpose, sufficient labour should be available. Only fully developed flowers should be picked. Flowers are ready for first picking after 65-70 days of transplanting and then subsequent picking should be done at 15 days interval and last and second last picking should be done only for seed purpose. Drying of flowers As the fresh flowers of chamomile contain about 70-80% water. Picked flowers should be immediately transferred to the drying shed and spread over ground in very thin layers of 1-2 cm and allowed them to dry till flowers loose 45-65% moisture. Distillation Steam distillation method is an appropriate method for oil extraction from dried flowers of chamomile. Oil content and yield The flowers yield a blue oil containing 1-15% azulene. It is used in pharmaceutical industry, to flavour high quality wine, tea and in perfumes.