 Attempts have been made from time to time to popularize soybean cultivation in different states, especially Kashmir, Punjab, U.P., Bihar, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Habit Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 1933 Use of different plants as antihelminthic drug Volume 2, page 397 Satvin, khazkuvali and haldi Satvin: Assamese: satiana, sattni; Bengali: chattim, chatwan; Hindi: chatium, saitan-ka-jhad; Kannada: jantaala-mara, janthalle, koodale, maddale, yedelebale; Malayalam: aarilampala, daivapaala, ezhilampala, koda- pala, mukampala; Marathi: saptaparni, satwin; Oriya: chhatiana, kumbaro, soptorposi; Tamil: ezhilaippalai, mukkam palai; Telugu: aedakularite-chettu, eda-kula, palagaruda. Satvin: Devil's tree, dita-bark tree Satvin: Alstonia scholaris R. Br. Satvin: The bark is regarded as a bitter tonic and is a mild febrifuge and possesses astrigent, anthelmintic and galactogogue propeties. It is reported to be employed in heart diseases, asthma, chronic diarrhoea and to stop bleeding of wounds. Bruised and boiled in oil with cotton seed, the bark is applied to the ear for deafness. The fresh bark juice with milk is stated to be administered in leprosy and dyspepsia. In Ayurvedic system, the drug is said to be useful in cancer-like conditions. Satvin: A large, buttressed, evergreen tree, 12-18 m in height, sometimes reaching up to 27 m, and 2.4 m in girth, with a straight bole of 12 m, found almost throughout India, up to an altitude of 600 m. Bark rough, grey-white, yellowish inside and exuding a bitter latex when injured; leaves 4-7 in a whorl, darkgreen above, pale and covered with a brownish bloom beneath; flowers greenish white or greenish Schematic representation yellow, in compact, umbellate cymes, fragrant; follicles 30- 60 cm x 3 mm, in clusters, cylindric, with seeds possessing brown hair. Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 408 Use of root of vaira tree to control ticks and lice in buffalo Volume 2, page 398 Vaira Hindi and Marathi: warms, pullung; Kannada: becadi, adwi- nuggi; Tamil: baro-kala-goru; Telugu: bondgu, barukoli- gottu, kaligottu. Heterophragma quadriloculare (Roxb.) K. Schum. A thick fluid-like tar extracted from the wood is said to be used for skin diseases. A large tree with grey scaly bark, found in central India, Saurashtra, northern Circars and the western parts of the Deccan peninsula. Leaves 1-5 ft long, pinnate: leaflets ovate, shortly acuminate, entire or serrulate; flowers white or rose- coloured, fragrant, in terminal panicles; capsules slightly compressed, straight, 8-12 in. long.