 It has been observed that integrating more green fodder into animal diets has the potential to lower milk production costs. Also, many farmers start relying on common property resources to fulfil their animals’ fodder needs after intervention by the KVK. Keywords: Bihar, Green fodder, KVK, Livestock IHAR is basically an agricultural state and nearly three-fourth population depends on agriculture, livestock and allied sectors for livelihood. Livestock is a key source of supplementary income and livelihood especially for small land holdings and landless rural poor households. In 2013, about 93% of milk producers were marginal and small, possessing less than 2 hectares (ha) of land, and together contributed about 90% of total milk production in the state. About 80% of the total milk produced in Bihar comes from landless poor agricultural labourers and small and marginal farmers (ILRI 2014).The state currently represents the eight largest dairy market in India and produced 11,502 thousand tonnes of milk production during 2020-21 (AHS, Gol). If we see the impressive growth of dairy sector alone, the productivity of milk in Bihar was 0.7 MT per lactating animal comparatively low as compared to other states like Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh productivities, where it is 2.4 MT, 1.1 MT, 1.0 MT, and 0.8 MT per lactating animal, respectively. This lower productivity of milk is attributed to many factors and to a large extent on the Indian Farming availability of feed and fodder to the dairy animals. The availability of concentrate and fodder are directly linked with agricultural crop production system of a particular area in the state. Availability of crop residues is further declining due to adoption of high-yielding dwarf varieties / hybrids and field wastage due to extensive use of grain picker / mechanical harvester in cereal crops. The main reason for green fodder deficit is the low green fodder yield and lesser allocation of lands for cultivation of fodder and pastures. Importance of green fodder in village-based production system Traditionally, green fodder is natural feed stuff and it serves as a cost-effective nutrient source for majority of the dairy animals contributing to their overall health and enhancing breeding efficiency. It is highly nutritious, palatable, rich in minerals, vitamins and an economic source of macro-and micro-nutrients. The primary sources of animal feed in the village area of Bihar consist of rice straw, wheat straw, and certain pulse residues without much provision of green fodder. Recent studies conducted in the Indo-Gangetic Plain of the state have March 2024 35 Indian Farming 36 March 2024 brought attention to the challenge of inadequate fodder and the low nutritive value of available feed resources. This issue becomes more pronounced in the eastern parts of the region, where agricultural resources, especially arable land and water, are increasingly scarce.