 The fruits are used for making squash, jam, dried flakes, etc. The fruit has lot of medicinal properties and contain several phytochemicals such as xanthones, flavonoides, saponins, tannins, alkaloids, lipids, benzophenones and biflavonoids. Methanol extract of fruit contains benzophenones, guttiferone H and gambogenone. These compounds play major role for prevention of colon cancer and breast cancer. There is almost no plantation of yellow mangosteen in India. It is mostly grown in the backyard garden as semi-wild condition in south and east and North eastern India. Tree with mature fruits Immature yellow mangosteen fruits Indian Horticulture 8 Table 1. Use of Garcinia species in folk medicines Fruit Use in folk medicine Mangosteen Peel and seed in the form of infusions and decoctions are used to treat infections of skin, urinary tract, and gastrointestinel, and act as laxative, anti-scorbutic, and anti-fever agent. Treatment of diarrhoea, abdominal pain, dysentery, suppuration, wound infection, and chronic ulcer and to treat inflammatory and immunological related- diseases, such as acne, food allergies, arthritis, etc. Kokum Traditionally, kokum is used in herbal medicines to treat diarrhoea, inflammatory ailments, dermatitis, bowel problems, rheumatic pains and to prevent hyper perspiration. Fruits are used as antihelmintic and cardiotonic. Kokum juice from the rind is used against piles, colic problems, dysentery and diarrhoea, decoction of fruit rinds are traditionally used against diabetes. Kokum butter is used traditionally to heal wounds, fissures in hands and is supposed to restore elasticity of skin and used as a moisturiser. Leaves are used to treat skin ulcers, dyspepsia and hyperplasia. Malabar Tamarind Treatment of edema, delayed menstruation, ulcers, open sores, hemorrhoids, fever, rheumatism, and also against intestinal parasites. The astringent properties of the rind make it an indispensible ingredient in gargles for weak gums, bowel complaints, constipation, diarrhoea and dysentery. The plant is used in veterinary medicine for mouth diseases in livestock. Yellow mangosteen Plant is widely used as a traditional folk medicine for bilious condition, diarrhoea, dysentery, anthelmintic, cardiotonic and as a tonic to improve appetite. In traditional Chinese Dai medicine, it is used for expelling worms and removing food toxins. Table 2. Phytoconstituents in various parts of Garcinia species Fruit species Plant part Phytoconstituents Mangosteen Fruit Protocatechuic acid, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, xanthonoids, such as mangostin; methylparaben, methyl 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoate, parvifoliol A1, methyl 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, epicatechin, mangostanin Kokum Fruit Hydroxycitric acid (HCA), (1, 2 dihydroxypropane-1, 2, 3-tricarboxylic acid).