42, 48.64±0.60 and 32.41±0.27, respectively. Haofa dog of Manipur: Haofa,‘the dog of the Tangkhuls’ is considered an indigenous hound dog of Manipur. It is medium to large in size and weighs between 15-25 kg. Body height at wither, body length,chest girth (in cm) are 57.9±1.82, 57.5±1.34 and 67.4±2.31, respectively. Fish Genetic Resources New records of fishes and shellfishes from the Indian waters: Freshwater fish species discovered were: Amblycepsh molaii sp. nov. (ZSI FF 9059, holotype, 51.5 mm SL), a catfish species from Kawlchaw river of Kaladan river drainage in Mizoram. Pangasius icaria from Cauvery river basin in two locations- at Mettur dam, and in the upstream of Shivanasamudra falls, Chamarajanagar, Karnataka. Tor sattalensis, a new species under the mahseer genus Tor, from Sattal Lake, Uttarakhand in the Western Himalayan region of India. Marine fish/shrimp species discovered were: Eptatretus wadgensis (Family Myxinidae, Genus: Eptatretus), a new hagfish, was collected from Wadge Bank area in Lakshadweep Sea at a depth of approximately 250-300 m. Dussumieria modakandai sp. nov. (NBFGR, holotype, 144.99 mm SL) discovered from Tamil Nadu coast. Eels, viz. Ariosomaalbi maculatum collected from Off Kanyakumari, Arabian Sea; Ariosoma indicum from Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal, possibly having a continuous distribution along the Indian coast; Ariosoma maurostigma from Off Kerala, Arabian Sea and Ariosoma melanospilos from Colachel, Off Kanyakumari, southwest coast of India. The marine shrimp Actinimenes koyas (Decapoda: Palaemonidae) was collected from the coral atoll of Agatti Island, Lakshadweep, Arabian Sea. Identified the new distributional ranges of fish and shellfish species, viz. Garra annandalei (Hora 1921), commonly known as Annandale garra or Tunga garra. This species was so far reported only from the eastern side of India and the present finding from the middle Amblycepsh molaii sp. nov. Pangasius icari Tor sattalensis Eptatretus wadgensis Dussumieria modakandai sp. nov Ariosoma melanospilos stretch of river Tapti extend its range of distribution in west coast rivers of India. Hippolytid shrimp, Lysmata hochi (Baeza Anker 2008) and Lysmata amboinensis (De Man 1888) and palaemonid shrimp, Palaemon ellatenuipes (Dana 1852), and P. rotumana (Borradaile 1898) were recorded from the Lakshadweep Island, Arabian Sea. Urocaridella antonbruunii (Bruce 1967) was recorded from the bottom curve of the coral boulders in Gulf of Mannar and Agatti Islands. Ariosoma dolichopterum was recorded from Colachel, Off Kanyakumari, southwest coast of India, Indian Ocean. The Canary top Wrasse, Halichoeresleu coxanthus (Randall and Smith 1982), previously distributed from Maldives, Myanmar, Christmas Island (Australia), Thailand and Western Indonesia was recorded for the first time from Indian waters. Also observed a progressive change in fish diversity in Hooghly-Matlah estuary.