 Crop improvement research immediately after independence was augmented in phases through the establishment of commodity-oriented National Institutes, National Research Centres and Project Directorates under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. At present, there are 17 Crop Research Institutes, 5 Project Directorates, 3 National Network Projects, one National Research Centre, one deemed to be University for improvement of different field crops and one Institute for germplasm conservation. Another major step of the ICAR was to launch crops oriented All- India Coordinated Crop Improvement Projects, starting with maize in 1957; followed by wheat and rice in mid -sixties. Presently, there are 20 All-India Coordinated Crop Improvement Projects, ear-marked to research needs of different crops. In addition, there are 44 State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) and three Central Agricultural Universities (CAUs) contributing towards crop improvement research in the country. A multi-disciplinary approach for varietal improvement and crop production-related problems; collective planning and testing; exchange of germplasm and breeding material; flexibility in operations, cutting-across administrative and other boundaries and linkages with the International Research Centres are some of the characteristics features of the AICCIPs. Conceptually, this testing system facilitates generation of multilocation data within the shorter period of a few years. This unique model of multi-disciplinary approach based on the multilocation testing facilitated rapid generation and identification of appropriate high-yielding varieties and development of improved package of practices for different agro-ecologies. More than 3,000 high-yielding varieties/hybrids of field crops have been developed till 2014; combining desired levels of resistance to biotic/abiotic stresses, adaptation to diverse agronomic variables and cropping systems. Meeting the prescribed quality standards in testing and production have helped in revolutionizing crop production. The international nurseries and trials, being organized worldwide by the CGIAR institutes, are basically modeled on the lines of AICCIPs. In spite of the impressive mileage, the system has given across crops since 1957, there has been an apprehension regarding its continued utility in the present form. There is a considerable scope to bring in changes in view of the new technological advancements, changing production conditions and evolving national and international policies and procedures. A set of uniform guidelines for plant variety testing, identification, release and notification of crop varieties in the country was developed and published in 2002 as “Guidelines for Crop Variety Testing under All- India Coordinated Crop Improvement Projects”.