31 tonnes/ha at Coochbehar. Crop Production In medium land in waterlogged areas with 22-30 cm water-depth for 50 days (from 60 days after sowing to 110 days of crop harvest), JRO 524 (olitorius jute) yielded 1.73 tonnes/ha against Hybrid C (Padma) (capsularis jute) recommended for such a situation in north Bengal, Bihar, U.P. and Assam. For seed production, sowing in mid-June and detopping at 45 days age have been most beneficial for capsularis and olitorius jutes at Aduthurai (Tamil Nadu) SUGARCANE PRODUCTS ● ●● ●● Released for general cultivation tossa jute JRO 128 can be sown in mid March without the risk of early flowering. ● Spraying Cofider at 5 ml/litre effectively controlled mealy bug of mesta at Andhra Pradesh. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 40 and Rahuri (Maharashtra). At Purulia (West Bengal), 1.1 tonnes of seed per hectare of capsularis were obtained. This indicates very good prospect of jute seed production of capsularis type in drier tracts. Crop Protection Jute seeds when dressed with Trichoderma and Azospirillum controlled root-rot and sunnhemp dressed with Bradyrhizobium japonicum and Aspergillus niger strain- 27 controlled wilt, besides promoting plant growth. Spraying Cofider at 5 ml/lit. has been most effective against mealy bug of mesta at Andhra Pradesh. TOBACCO Crop Improvement Chewing tobaccos Dharla (Sel. 8-4-1), Abirami (HV 86-5) and Lichchivi (PS 14) have been identified for north Bengal, Tamil Nadu and north Bihar. Flue-cured CY 79 has been identified for southern light soils and southern black soils of Andhra Pradesh in the conserved soil-moisture areas. The released flue-cured tobacco K 326 (NLS 4) produces semi-flavoured, suitable for export, tobacco. Advanced burley breeding line BSRB 2, an interspecific derivative, having resistance to blackshank, introgressed from Nicotiana plumbaginifolia, performed well in on-farm trials and bulk trials at the BTRC, Jeddangi. Interspecific hybrids of a trispecific cross (N. × benthamiana - repanda) × N. gossei could be obtained for the first time. Country cheroot tobacco HV. 97-10 and HV. 97-7 are promising for higher yield and better smoking quality. Crop Production Urdbean during kharif and FCV tobacco in rabi recorded higher net returns with a cost : benefit ratio of 1 : 1.62, closely followed by maize+soybean during kharif and chickpea during rabi with cost : benefit ratio of 1 : 1.20. Modified flue-pipe system of tobacco curing designed by TIDE, Bangalore, gave about 25% saving in wood fuel consumption in Karnataka compared to the conventional flue-pipe system. SUCCESS STORY SOLANESOL FROM TOBACCO Tobacco is a rich source of solanesol, a trisesquiterpenoid alcohol, which is the starting material for synthesis of Coenzyme Q9, Coenzyme Q10, Vitamin K2 and anti-cancer drug potentiating agents like N-solanesyl-N, N1-bis (3, 4- dimethoxybenzyl) ethylene diamine. Raw materials rich in solanesol have been identified.