 India achieved near-self-sufficiency in edible oils from the yellow revolution and there was significant turnaround in oilseed production from 10.83 million tons in 1985-86 to 38.50 million tons in 2021-22. The Blue Revolution, with its multi-dimensional activities, focuses mainly on increasing fisheries production and productivity from aquaculture and fisheries resources: inland, fresh water and marine. Average milk, egg, fruit, vegetable, meat consumption improved over the decades leading to diversified food systems, nutrition security with increased life expectancy. Other revolutions in the country were the outcomes of the technologies introduced and policies framed and implemented with strong backup from leadership and institutional strength of ICAR. The ICAR technologies contributed in sustaining the benefits of these revolutions, despite depleting and deteriorating natural resources (Soil, water, biodiversity, climate), as well as escalating stresses such as diseases, insect pests, droughts, and floods. Indian Agriculture after Independence 416 4. Milestones in Leadership The ICAR laid significant focus on research, technology, education, innovation, etc., in different phases of its transition and all such developments were possible or successful essentially because of the major policies and cross-sectoral initiatives, organizational innovations piloted by the Director Generals of ICAR, in the respective time periods, ably supported by various eminent researchers and research leaders. The salient milestones, significant game-changing events, transformational reforms, etc. grouped based on the functional domains or intended purposes are presented in following para. 4.1. Enabling Research Partnerships, Consultancy, Resource Mobilization ICAR revisited its resource mobilization strategy in 1997 by providing for engagement of researchers with external sponsoring bodies and corporate/private firms. The Rules and Guidelines on “Training, Consultancy, Contract Research and Contract Service in ICAR System” were formulated in 1997. Researchers were encouraged to participate in collaborative work with external agencies. These guidelines were in operation from April 1, 1997. Later in 2014, these guidelines were updated as ‘ICAR Rules and Guidelines for Professional Service Functions (PSF)’ which are very futuristic and enabling to achieve the core objectives of the arrangement and operating even today. The seamless operation of the large number of externally funded projects, national and international consultancy services, sponsored projects currently under various institutions across the subject matter divisions, could be attributed to these initiatives from the ICAR. 4.2. Strengthening Research Outputs (Publications, Patents, Technologies) ICAR has its Guidelines for Intellectual Property Management and Technology and a decentralized three-tier IP management mechanism is institutionalized in ICAR on October 2, 2006 under the guidance of Dr.