 Productivity enhancement by adopting scientific irrigation schedule based on IW/CPE ratio, moisture depletion approach and critical growth stages. Revival and intensification osesamum cultivation in the Onattukara tract. Cowpea: Kanakamany, Anaswara, Krishnamani, Pournami (for summer rice fallows) and Shubra (as summer rice fallows of southern Kerala and Sreya and Hridya in summer rice fallows of Onattukara). Black gram: Syama, Sumanjana, T-9, CO-2, TAUI (partially shaded). Green Gram: Pusa Baisakhi, CO-2 and Pusa 8973. Horse gram: CO-1, Pattambi Local, AK-21 and AK-42Groundnut: Sneha Snigdha Sesamam 1, Tilottama, Thilathara. Mid-lands and low land districts such as Palakkad, Malappuram and Ernakulam. Field crops: Tuber crops Adoption of released or locally accepted high yielding varieties of tuber crops • Promotion of soil test based integrated nutrient management utilizing the service in the soil testing laboratories and Krishi bhavan. • Retaining only two shoots in opposite direction by removing excess ones at 30 DAP. • Plant vine cuttings of 20-30 cm length from middle and top of vines • Adopting minisett technology for yams • Providing organic mulch to colocasia. Tapioca varieties: Sreevijaya and Sreeathidya (hybrids), Sreejaya (early maturing), Sreesahya (drought tolerant), Sreeprabha and H-165 and H-226. Yam: Indu,Coleus: Suphala All three regions. Main growing districts are Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Idukki, Pathanamthitta and Malappuram. 272 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Domain Actionable points/Strategies Specific technologies available Regions where applicable Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement Plantation Crops: Coconut Improved coconut varieties Crop improvement research, through evaluation and utilization of coconut genetic resources in the country, has resulted in the development of several improved varieties, through mass selection and hybridization approaches. Till date, about 20 improved varieties of coconut, including six high yielding hybrids, have been released by ICAR- CPCRI for cultivation in India. These includes tall, dwarf and hybrid varieties and varieties for tender and copra production in different parts of India and also varieties resistant/tolerant to root (wilt) disease, moisture stress tolerance, and varieties for ornamental purpose. Economic aspects: Traditional or coconut yield up to 9000 Kg/ha of husked nuts and 15 kg Copra/palm that is 2.6 tonnes of copra/ha/year. Improved varieties have the potential to give Kg/ha of husked nuts and 25 kg copra/palm that is 4.4\ tonnes of copra/ha/year.