 Khadi: Production by the Masses for the Masses India lives in villages, and the father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi advocated for self-reliant village economies where the villages will be independent yet inter-dependent economic units for production, consumption and trade, leading to the maximization of social welfare with every individual in the village having affordable access to the basic minimum needs of food, 5 shelter and clothing. He believed in mass production by the masses for the masses using the locally available natural resources and human capital with little, if any, external intervention. Gandhiji was not against industrialization, but he was against exploitation of the resources and people for profiteering in the process of mass-scale industrialization by a few industrialists. Gandhiji was against the concentration of agricultural land in fewer hands and was unequivocal in his ideas in favour of the distribution of land to the tillers, and also the collective farming for improving scale economies. He also advocated the use of agricultural techniques and technologies that do not deteriorate and pollute the soil, water and environment, and cause hazards to human health. Nonetheless, given the predominance of smallholdings and unequal distribution of land he opined that agriculture alone cannot solve the problem of unemployment, indebtedness and rural poverty, and therefore, agricultural development should go hand in hand with the development of rural industries that are based on local resources and family labour and require less of capital investment. Agriculture generates raw materials for rural industries, and their outputs can be targeted for consumption by the local people and sale in local markets. He emphasized on the development of small-scale rural industries to generate employment and income for the rural people in the village itself. Gandhiji used Khadi and Charkha to symbolize rural prosperity through rural industrialization by rural people. He was convinced that “Provided this character of the village industry is maintained, there would be no objection to villagers using even the modern machines and tools that they can make and can afford to use.” Even after decades of Independence, Gandhiji’s idea of sustainable development of agriculture and rural industrialization remains as important as it used to be in the pre-Independence period. For example, the large-scale reverse migration of labour from urban areas back to the villages, and the supply chain disruptions in wake of Covid-19 disease pandemic induced lockdown have exposed the weaknesses of urbanization and urban-based industrial employment, hence the need for labour-intensive rural industrialization based on local resources, including the agricultural surpluses, labour, skills and capital.