 • Popularizing rapeseed-mustard cultivation in rice–fallow areas of eastern states, NEH and non-traditional areas. 55 Crop Science 55 • Under mustard seed-hub project a total of 4178.65q certified seed of rapeseed-mustard was produced during rabi 2019-2020. • Mustard value chain established at 10 different locations including NEH states. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • High yielding rapeseed-mustard varieties for different agro-climatic zones of India. • Crop production and protection technologies for high productivity of rapeseed-mustard. • Web based expert systems and mobile apps • Non-exclusive licensing for seed production and other technologies. • Capacity building of farmers and extension personnel and skill development training and consulting services. Indian mustard variety DRMR IJ 31 (Giriraj) Farm women in FLD on Indian mustard NRCHB 101 in Assam Indian mustard variety DRMR 150-35 56 ICAR Institutes Profile 56 ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute (Assam) 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR- Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Dirpai Chapori, Gogamukh – 787035 (Assam) ii. Name of the Nodal Officer : Dr. Khem Bahadur Pun iii. e-mail: iariassam2017@gmail.com; Phone No. +91-7011540122 2. Mandate and activities IARI-Assam is unique in its structure, functioning, mandate and objectives that are specific to the North Eastern states: Post Graduate Education • Promote excellence, foster high standard research for holistic agrarian development and orient the educational programme towards future needs and opportunities in South East Asia. • Strengthen formal/non-formal training to promote entrepreneurial skills for commercialization of agriculture in the region through different diploma courses in the line of poly techniques. Research • Conservation and utilization of biotic resources of North East India for higher farm productivity and industrial uses. • Acid soil management vis-à-vis development of crop varieties and technologies suitable for acidic soil of North East India. • Productive utilization of water resources through multi-disciplinary research • Develop appropriate cropping systems to attain multiple cropping for increasing productivity with long term sustainability in the North Eastern states. • Develop integrated farming system models & to promote organic agriculture. • Develop horticulture and animal husbandry-based diversified farming system modules to promote rural entrepreneurship. • Effective postharvest management and value addition using appropriate food engineering protocols to enhance farm income and promote agribusiness. Outreach • Generate innovative extension models, dovetail them to developmental models, and disseminate them through KVKs, state agricultural universities and state agricultural 57 Crop Science 57 extension and other development departments of different states of the North-East India.