 Subba Reddy and Singh (2001) 16 TILLAGE AND INTERCULTURAL MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 10 Mixing of sand with seeds for uniform plant stands The farmers in Southern parts of Andhra Pradesh usually mix sand with small seeded crops like sesamum and tobacco (50:50), while sowing for getting uniform plant stands in alluvial soils (Andhra Pradesh). Subba Reddy and Singh (2001) 17 4 Crops and Cropping Systems S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 1 Reducing plot size for efficient water management in carrot Mr. Umedbhai Patel altered the carrot planting method for increasing yield. Generally, in North Gujarat, the size of the plots is large (20'-30' × 6'-8'). He says that root crops like carrot require soft and loose soil. And large plots retain larger quantity of water that compacts and hardens the soil.So he experimented with deep tillage in small plots (10'×3') in his field based on its slope and ensured that soil did not harden due to irrigation. Also, the greater number of bunds thus created in the field made the soil soft and conducive to root growth. Small plots also helped in reducing the requirement of irrigation water. Umedbhai's production went up from 2500 to 3000 kg/ha to 3500 to 4000 kg/ha because of this practice. The quality of carrots also improved with increase in girth and length (Mahesana, Gujarat). Patel (1997) 2 Sprinkling honey for better pollination in ridge gourd Ridge gourd is a cross pollinated crop. Its fruit setting is directly affected by bees and other pollinating insects. Approximately 100 ml of honey is mixed with 10 litres of water and sprinkled over the crop in the evening. This increases the pollination of flowers because of the increased visits by bees and other insects which are attracted by the smell of honey (Jaipur, Rajasthan). Sharma (1996c) 3 Soil burning (sudu mannu) to raise vegetable nursery Soil is burnt to reduce damping off of seedlings and the weed population, sterilize soil and to have priming effect (Hilly and Coastal zones of Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 4 Kharif fallowing for assured rabi crop In black soils of low rainfall regions, where raising of successful crops involves high risk in rainy season (kharif), farmers keep the land fallow during rainy season. This practice, besides conserving moisture for rabi crops is useful to distribute peak demand of labour, draft power, build up native fertility and efficient management of weeds (Western Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka). Subba Reddy and Singh (2001) 18 CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 5 Kharif fallowing for better rabi crop The farmers in low rainfall areas keep the land fallow during rainy season (kharif) and rabi crops are taken on receding moisture. This practice reduces the risk, distribution of peak demand of labour and draft power, build up of native fertility and management of weeds.