 Another important nationally sponsored scheme is the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (Prime Minister Agriculture Irrigation Scheme). It focuses on improving efficiency in management of water resources, extending coverage of assured irrigation through micro- irrigation interventions, and promoting water-use efficiency. It also promotes extension activities related to water harvesting, water man­ agement and crop alignment for farmers and local field functionaries. Aimed at enhancing resilience to climate vulnerabilities among farmers, the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (Prime Minister Crop Insurance Scheme) was launched in 2016 to provide a comprehensive insurance cover against crop loss or damage due to unforeseen events including events resulting from climate change. It also aims to encourage farmers to adopt innovative agricultural practices. Following NAPCC in 2008, states were tasked in 2009 to develop subnational plans called State Action Plans on Climate Change (SAPCC), consistent with the strategy outlined in the NAPCC. Since then, based on the understanding that nuanced assessment of regional and local vul­ nerabilities is fundamental for planning adaptation and mitigation strategies, SAPCCs have served as the primary document for state-level agricultural policy formulation toward mitigating climate change impacts. Despite a wide range of policies and programs based on the concept of CSA, there are several issues that need to be addressed to achieve the “triple-wins” of CSA. An important criticism of India’s CSA policies, especially NMSA, is its limited focus on enhancing resilience among small and marginal farmers (Sharma, 2023; Byravan and Rajan, 2012). While it is encouraging that there is wider recognition that a “one-size- fits-all” approach is not suitable in the Indian context, there is limited understanding of barriers to adoption, especially among smallholder and women farmers. NMSA is also considered to be limited in its scope in terms of representing different agro-climatic zones (Byravan and Rajan, 2012). A Centre for Science and Environment study (Rattani et al., 2018) demonstrates that SAPCCs submitted by most states lack detailed vulnerability assessments and adequate budgetary support. Another important criticism focuses on the poor integration or convergence and coherence across line departments (e.g., agriculture, water, environ­ ment, forests, and rural development) and implementation agencies (Chaturvedi et al., 2019; Rattani et al., 2018; Babu et al., 2013; Dubash and Jogesh, 2014). The wide range of schemes and programs focusing on climate change mitigation and adaptation, social protection, and improving overall quality of life often overlap in objectives and intended impacts. This can impact smallholder production systems, and can result in added costs, reduced outcomes, and unexpected, negative impacts (FAO, 2011).