 Proactive measures by the state with helpful point of view are called for as we start working in 'another typical': more alleviation in kind (for example making the PDS all inclusive, guaranteeing whoever is poor gets the important help and isn't left starving because of bureaucratic obstacles like absence of apportion card); and money (for example expanding the sum under the PM Samman Kisan Nidhi from the current INR 6,000/ - to INR 15,000/ - and discharging the main portion before Kharif); measures to control charging of extravagant enthusiasm by casual division moneylenders, waiver of enthusiasm for the quarter on term credits and overdraft agribusiness and MSME accounts; remunerating misfortune brought about because of harm to short-lived crops like blossoms, natural products, vegetables and fish; and growing the extent of MNREGS to remember the gather of harvests for ranchers' fields by work and worth expansion to deliver by women. E-horticulture strategy guide was produced by the Food and Agriculture society and the global Telecommunication amalgamation with aid from accomplices, including the Technical Center for Agricultural and Rural assistance as a system for nation in building up their national E-Agribusiness tactic/ end- all policies1. II. REVIEW OF LITERATURE S. Mahendra Dev and Rajeswari Sengupta,(2020)2 in their paper entitled “Covid-19: Impact on the Indian Economy” On the health risk in rural areas, it is true to currently the problem is much more solemn in inner-city areas since of high compactness. But, it can spread to 70% of the India’s inhabitants who live in rustic areas. Some migrant workers have already gone back to rural areas. There is a risk of Covid-19 dispersion to the grower, agricultural laborers, workers and others working throughout the food supply chains. The wrap up material used for agricultural merchandise can also carry the virus. The cultivation and rural inhabitants have to be sheltered as societal aloofness will be experienced comparatively less in rural areas. ISSN NO: 0776-3808 http://aegaeum.com/ Page No: 481 AEGAEUM JOURNAL Volume 8, Issue 5, 2020 Prangya Paramita Sahoo & Suvangi Rath (2020)3 in their paper Potential Impact of Corona Virus on Agriculture Sector concluded that Nonetheless, it very well may be fought with the coordinated endeavors of the focal and state governments alongside the examination establishments and augmentation administrations.