 on placement of technical personnel in T-ll-3 from T-1-3, for the purpose of five yearly assessment_ their service rendred in T-11-3 sdfgrade will only be counted . In other words. the service rendered in T-1-3 for the purpose of computation of five years of service for grant of merit promotion/advance increments from T-11-3 to T-4 shall not be counted. Yours faithfully, Sd/- (G.C.Sharma) OSD(S) K'AR 1-IANDflOOKOFTF.C'HNICAI SERVICES No.14(3)/94-Estt IV To Dated 29 September J 995 Subject: Sir. The Directors/Project Directors/Zonal Co-ordinators ofthe ICAR Research Institutes/Project Directorates/NRCs /Zonal Co-ordinating Units Removal of Category llar Between Cat.I and Cat.II Ap- plicability to Incumbents of Posts like Drivers/Mechan- ics for Staff Car/Jeep/Tractor etc. Which were R~las- sified as Administrative and Auxiliary- Regarding. Reference is invited to Council's lellerofeven number dated 1.2.1995 vide which instructions relating to removal of category bar between Cat.I and Cat.II were issued. A question has been raised whether the staff who were appointed to the posts of Drivers/Mechanics for Staff Car/Jeep/Tractor etc. which were initially classified as technical and subsequently reclassified as Administrative or Auxiliary will also get the benefit under these instructions. In this connection, reference is invited to Council's Circular No. 9- l/82-P.IV dated 28.5.82 according to which the incumbents of posts earlier classified as technical and subsequently reclassified as non-technical (administrative or auxiliary} were to derive all the benefits oftechnical service on personal basis). It ls therefore clari'fied that such srnff(Appcndix 11 part C of Rules) will also get the benefit of removal of category bar between Cat.I and Cat. 1! in terms of Council's Circular of even number dated 1.2.1995. The receipt of this letter may please be acknowledged. Yours faithfully Sd/- { K.K. Bajpai) Deputy Secretary(B} ICAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES F.No. 14-3/94-Estt JV Dated 22 September 1995 To Subject: Sir. The Direc1ors/Project Directors/Zonal Co-ordinators of the !CAR Research lnstitutes/Projecl Directorates/NRCs/Zonal Co-ordinating Units Amendment to Rule 6.4 of Technical Service Rules relating to Date or Effect of Benefit under Five-Yearly Assessment Scheme - Clarification -Regarding Reference is invited to this Council's notification No.14( 4V94-E.!V dated I Fellruary, 1995 regardi11gamendme11tofRule6.4 ofTechnical Service Rules. As per amended rule merit promotion or grant of advance increments is to be given with effect from the date following the date of completion of5 years in a grade. The amendment has been made effective from 1.1.1995. A question has been raised as to the date of effect of merit promotion or advance increments in respect of technical personnel completing 5 years of service as on 31.12.1994.