 These traditional practices are adopted by 85% farmers in the Kurchi village of Dhanbad district in Jharkhand. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Sitaram Mahto, Kurchi, Govindpur, Dhanbad (Jharkhand) Location of use of the ITK : Village Kurchi, Block Govindpur, Dhanbad (Jharkhand) Experimenters : Dr N. Kudada, Assistant Professor cum-Junior Scientist, Department of Plant Pathology and Dr (Ms) N. Bara, Scientist, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) METHODOLOGY Location Village Kurchi, Block Govindpur, Dhanbad (Jharkhand) PRA and field study Field study was conducted following the PRA methodology with 15 respondents. The reported ITK was compared with recommended chemical control measure on four parameters i.e. insect control, cost effectiveness, availability of materials and yield. Experiment An experiment was conducted in Kurchi village. The design was R.B.D. with 10 replications and three treatments, viz., T1-Control, T2-Spraying of animal urine mixed with starch, followed by dusting of cowdung ash (@ 500 litres of animal urine mixed with 5 lit. of rice starch followed by dusting of 40 kg cowdung ash per ha.), T3- Application of monocrotophos @ 1. 0 l/ ha. Lady's finger was taken as the test crop and observations were recorded on parameters like number of infested fruits/m2 and extent of control. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Data on PRA have been presented in Table 1 which show that spraying of animal urine mixed with starch followed by dusting of cowdung ash Table 1. Matrix scoring for assessment of efficacy of starch, animal urine and cowdung ash with chemical insecticide in control of fruit borer in lady's finger N=15 Parameter Traetment Animal urine starch and cow dung ash Chemical insecticide Insect control 6.93 8.53 Cost effectiveness 9.07 4.53 Availability 7.93 3.87 Yield 6.27 6.47  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Table 2. Number of infested lady's finger fruits and extent of control due to use of ITK and chemical pesticide Treatment Number of infested fruits/m2 Extent of control (%) Control 20.2 - Spraying of animal urine mixed with starch followed by dusting of cow dung ash 9.4 53.6 Application of monocrotophos 4.22 79.4 CD at 5 % 4.2 is slightly inferior than chemical insecticide in controlling the insect-pests. However, in terms of yield both the methods were rated to be at par and on other parameters the reported ITK was rated to be superior than the chemical insecticide. Experiment The results obtained indicate that least number of infested fruits (4.2/m2) was recorded due to application of monocrotophos. Application of monocrotophos also recorded 79.4% less infestation than control. In treatment (T2), i.e. spraying of animal urine mixed with starch, followed by dusting of cow dung ash, the number of infested fruits was 9.4/m2. It also recorded 53.6% less infestation than the control. Substantial reduction in infestation by the insect-pest was observed with the ITK method.