 They are externally applied for eruption of skin. Small herb 45 cm high, native of Levant, cultivated or occasionally found as weed in Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Bihar and Assam. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 367 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 206 Ocimum basilicum - - Oil is extensively used for flavouring for confectionary. It is used also for scenting dental and oral preperation. The plant is stomachic, anthelmintic, diephoretic, expectorent, carminative, stimulent and pectoral. Seeds possess demulscent diuretic, stimulent, diephoretic and cooling properties.Root’s bark and leaves are cyno-genetic. Very small, compact, bush- like herb found all over India. It resembles sweet basil but is smaller in all parts. 207 Ocimum sanctum Sacred basil H-Tulsi B-Tulsi M-Tulas G-Tulsi Tel-Tulasi T-Thulasi Kan-Tulasi Mal-Trittavu Juice of leaves possess diaphoretic, anti- periodic, stimulating and expectorant properties. It is used in catarrah and bronchitis, applied to the skin and ring worm and other cutaneous diseases and dropped into the ear to relieve ear-ache and infusion of the leaves is used as a stomachic and gastric disorder in children . Decoction of the leaves is given as diaphoretic in malarial fever. The seeds are mucilagenous and demulscent, and are given in disorder of genito urinary system. Erect, herbaceous, much branched, softely hairy annual, 30–75 cm high, found throughout India, ascending up to 1800 m under Himalayas and in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. 208 Opuntia dillenii Prickly pear H-Nagphani B-Nagphani M-Chapal G-Chorhathalo Tel-Nagajenu T-Nagathali Kan-Papaskalli Mal-Palkakkalli O-Nagophenia Plants yield coarse fibre for use as a source of paper pulp. The baked fruit is given for whooping cough and a syrup of the fruit is said to increase the secretion of bile and control spasmodic cough and expectoration. Errect shrub about 2 m high with broadly ovate, dull-bluish joints, bearing 4–6 pale- yellow or light-horn coloured spines on each areole. This species is found nearly through out India, but more commonly in south India. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 368 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 209 Oryza sativa Rice H-Dnan B-Chal M-Dhan G-Dangar Tel-Vadlu T-Nellu Kan-Batta Mal-Nellu Starch is the major constituent of rice.Whole rice is a good source of Vitamin B, particularly thiamine, guanidine, amino acid and uracil. The husk has been tried with some success as a raw material for making paper, hard board, rayon and linoleum. Annual or perennial grass without rhizome, leaves long and narrow.