 The associations are statistically significant after controlling for all the time-invariant factors for women, communities, and villages. The agricultural wages measure the trade-offs women face with respect to their time spent in agriculture and non-agricultural activities. The regression results show that a 100-rupee increase in a woman’s agricultural wages (opportunity cost of time) per day is associated with a decline in her calories equal to 112.3 kcal, 0.7 mg iron, 0.4 mg zinc, and 1.5 g protein. These associations suggest that during peak seasons relative to lean seasons, when agricultural activities demand more time from women, their cost of time increases for every minute spent on unpaid activities. Since we include women who have engaged in agri­ cultural activities, the market-determined village-level female wages represent their least cost of time6. Since the nutrient intakes are reported as a 24-hour recall once monthly, we control for fluctuations of seasons and a type of day by including time and day dummies. We also control for price fluctuations in commonly eaten foods. An increase in staples prices, such as rice and wheat, leads to a significant increase in protein intake, fat, and vitamin A, suggesting that women substitute cereals with nonstaple foods. An increase in spinach’s price, holding other variables constant, is associated with a significant decrease in all macro-and micronutrient intake, except calorie consumption. The sickness of an adult or a child does not seem to affect the intakes of women. It is important to note that male wages do not impact micronutrients after controlling for seasonality, suggesting that the time constraints are more important for women’s nutrition than income constraints once we ac­ count for availability and seasonality factors. 4.3. Women’s opportunity cost of time and nutrition: Subsample analysis The size of the land owned is likely to impact time constraints for women. For instance, for the women who are landless or hold marginal land, spending time in agriculture may not be a choice due to a loss in earnings. The same may not hold for women who belong to households with large landholdings as they could hire labor. Gupta et al. (2017), show that ’women’s empowerment levels varied significantly across cropping patterns and were highest among cash-crop growing house­ holds. Each crop has different agriculture activities across seasons, the time involved differs across crops. Subsequently, time constraints may behave in a different way across cropping systems. We also conduct various subsample analyses to see how land ownership and cropping patterns affect this relationship. 4.3.1. Cropping patterns The opportunity cost may have varying effects on the nutrient in­ takes based on the household’s cropping pattern. As we can see from Table 5, the effects vary based on the type of cropping system that the women work in.