 The position of Programme Coordinator of Krishi Vigyan Kendra should be re-designated as ‘Chief Scientist- cum-Head’, in the cadre of Principal Scientist/Professor (PB-4, ` 37400-67000 with GP ` 10000), for effective management, implementation of mandated activities through proper coordination and convergence with line departments, including the district administration. 5. Further, all Subject Matter Specialists in Indian Council of Agricultural Research/State Agriculture Universities/Non-Governmental Organizations/State Government Krishi Vigyan Kendras should henceforth be redesignated uniformly as Scientist/Assistant Professor (PB-3, ` 15600-39100 with GP ` 6000) to ensure much needed parity across teaching, research and extension positions. 6. SMSs who are in technical cadre at present in Krishi Vigyan Kendras under Indian Council of Agricultural Research Institute should be redeployed or redesignated as Scientists and the positions may be adjusted through cadre strength of the concerned Indian Council of Agricultural Research institute/overall Indian Council of Agricultural Research level. 7. The total staff strength for each Krishi Vigyan Kendra should be increased from 16 to 22, comprising one Chief Scientist, 10 Scientists, one Computer Programmer, one Farm Manager, one Lab Technician, one Technician (T-I- Field/Farm), one Assistant Administrative Officer, one Stenographer Grade III, one Lower Division Clerk-cum- Store Keeper, two Drivers and two Supporting Staff. 8. Since Krishi Vigyan Kendras are 100% funded by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, the host organizations be accorded full freedom and assume full responsibility to recruit Krishi Vigyan Kendra staff without any restriction/ban. Krishi Vigyan Kendras should not be sanctioned or annual grants released unless the State Government agrees to recruit all sanctioned staff. Also the staff recruited in Krishi Vigyan Kendra must not be transferred for at least five years. The Memorandum of Understanding should also be clearly modified to this effect. 9. Pay structure, as sanctioned by Indian Council of Agricultural Research for the Krishi Vigyan Kendra staff, should be adopted by all host organizations without any variation whatsoever. Krishi Vigyan Kendra under Non-Governmental Organizations, which do not have approved promotion policy, must adopt Modified Assured Career Progression Scheme as implemented by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and amended from time to time. Similarly, the posts that come under the definition of isolated posts in Krishi Vigyan Kendras (other than Indian Council of Agricultural Research and Non-Governmental Organization Krishi Vigyan Kendras) will also follow Modified Assured Career Progression Scheme. 10. Payment of retirement benefits in the form of Gratuity and Contributory Provident Fund for Krishi Vigyan Kendra staff must be made applicable by all host organizations.