 the putative Roman Warm Period (RWP), Medieval Warm Period (MWP), Little Ice Age (LIA), despite these climatic events often being presented as global in impact (Fagan, 2002, 2005, 2009). The present research addresses this gap through analyses of botanical (macroremains and phytolith) and isotopic data spanning a chronology of around 2000 years at the site of Vadnagar, Gujarat (23◦47′N; 72◦39′E) (Figs. 1 and 2), a small urban centre of ~55 ha in the Medieval period that would have required a substantial agricultural hinterland to support it. Historians have raised questions regarding climatic or environmental perturbations in South Asia and their relation to periods of drought with subsequent famines, particularly during the Mughal and colonial periods of the last 500 years (Damodaran et al., 2019; Maharatna, 1996; Mukherjee, 2019; Uberoi, 2012). Damodaran et al. (2019) argue that while there have been some attempts to synthesize records of El Ni˜no Southern Oscillation (ENSO) variation, solar or volcanic forcing and historical accounts, reconstructing the complex relationship between climate variability and human responses requires a larger database of palaeoclimate and archaeological proxies that go beyond the instru­ mental record. Studies of high resolution speleothem records have attempted to link variability in Indian Summer Monsoon (ISM) precip­ itation with climate phases such as the LIA, MWP and RWP and considered these as drivers of dynastic succession in northern India (Kathayat et al., 2017). While these broad comparisons imply a causa­ tive relationship between climate, food production and political Fig. 1. (A) Map of Gujarat indicating location of Vadnagar. (B) Map of North Gujarat (C) Grid layout of excavated trenches at Vadnagar with Locality B and C circles in red. (D) Locality B showing layers of cultural deposits in 14.10 m deep cutting trench. (E) Locality C section along the fortification wall. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the Web version of this article.) A.K. Pokharia et al. Quaternary Science Advances 13 (2024) 100155 3 continuity and change, we argue that these are best examined through site-specific studies, which may then inform broader historical synthe­ ses. The case study at Vadnagar presents an opportunity for a detailed study of the relationship between climate and social-economic pro­ cesses. We examine these relationships using isotopic and phytolith data representing a mixture of anthropogenic and climatic signatures at the site, as well as changing patterns of crop production in the macro­ botanical record. 2. Study area Vadnagar is located in the Mehsana District in the semi-arid uplands of northern Gujarat (Fig. 1), adjacent to a depression that is believed to be a palaeochannel of the Sabarmati River (Pokharia et al., 2021).