 Ultimately, embracing digital innovation not only benefits businesses but also enriches the consumer experience, fostering a deeper appreciation for spices in a rapidly changing world. The future of spices is not just about flavour; it’s about smart, sustainable, and connected practices that celebrate heritage while embracing modernity. For further interaction, please write to: Dr D. Prasath (Project Coordinator), ICAR-All India Coordinated Research Project on Spices, ICAR-Indian Institute of Spices Research, Kozhikode, Kerala 673 012. *Corresponding author: Prasath.D@icar.gov.in For obtaining copies: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel: 011-25843657, Fax: 09-11-25841282; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Size : Royal Octavo (16 cm x 24 cm) No. of pages : i-xii + 1620 Price : ` 2000 Postage : ` 200 ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-096-6 The Handbook of Agriculture is one of the most popular publication of the ICAR with a wider readership. The present edition presents science-led developments in Indian agriculture, the ongoing research efforts at the national level and with some ideas on the shape of future agriculture. While information in some chapters such as Soil and water, Land utilization, field and forage crops has been updated with latest developments, many new topics such as the Environment, agrobiodiversity, Resource conservation technologies, IPM, Pesticides residues, Seed production technologies, Energy in agriculture, informatics, Biotechnology, Intellectural Property Rights, Agricultural marketing and trading and Indigenous Technical Knowledge have been included in the present edition. For those who take intelligent interest in agriculture – and their number is increasing fast – the present edition would serve as a useful book. SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online November–December 2024 29 Current status of application of digital technologies in plantation crops The plantation sector in India, comprising crops like coconut, arecanut, tea, coffee, rubber, and oil palm, significantly contributes to the national economy, supporting over 30 million small-scale growers. Despite its importance, the sector faces challenges in resource management, labour shortages, and environmental sustainability. The integration of digital technologies such as IoT, AI, drones, and blockchain is revolutionizing plantation crop management. These technologies enhance resource efficiency, facilitate precise crop monitoring, predict yields, detect diseases, and improve pest control. Additionally, AI-driven tools and big data analytics aid in optimizing irrigation, fertilization, and market strategies. Drones offer advantages in aerial surveys and pesticide application, while blockchain ensures transparency in the supply chain, especially for export-oriented crops.