 In general, practicing agriculture, using nitrogenous fertilizers such as anhydrous ammonia and deforestation, causes highest contribution of total N2O emissions. The loss in the form of N2O is nearly 7% of total nitrogen applied as anhydrous ammonia in agricultural use. Emission of CH4, another prominent greenhouse gas, is reported primarily from rice production and rearing livestock. The bifurcation of the emission showed that agriculture contributes 60% CH4, with 30% of total CH4 from rice production and 15% from livestock. Though, the CH4 and N2O are much smaller constituents of the earth’s atmosphere than is CO2, the increasing rice area and livestock numbers worldwide makes the emission of CH4 and N2O alarming. For example, the present atmospheric concentration of CO2 is 350μmol/mol whereas the concentration CH4 and N2O is currently 1.7μmol/mol and 0.3μmol/mol, respectively in the atmosphere. However, the fact is that the molecule of K A Kalariya*, Deepa Shahi and Manish Das Indian Horticulture 32 CH4 and N2O is more radiatively active than a molecule of CO2 (N2O is >200 times as active as CO2 as a greenhouse gas). The increase in mean temperature over a time of period is observed due to the increase in total greenhouse gases. Thus, the climate change can readily alter rainfall pattern and necessitate large-scale population movement and primary changes in agriculture. Secondary metabolism in plants under changing climatic scenario Increase in the concentration of greenhouse gases imparts the stressful condition to all living beings through changing global temperature regimes, rainfall pattern, extreme events and other associated effects. Persistent changes in the environmental conditions makes plants susceptible to majority of abiotic stresses like drought, deficiency of nutrient, high and low intensity of light, ozone as well as UV-B radiation, salinity, low and high temperature and heavy metal toxicity. Like all living members of the biosphere, medicinal plants also get affected by climate change. Climate change is causing noticeable effect on the life cycles and distribution of the medicinal plants besides affecting primary and the secondary metabolism in such plants. In general, abiotic stresses restrict growth and thus cause loss of production in terms of biological yield in plant. The energy in the form of light incident on leaf driving photosynthesis in green plants have three fates. The incident light absorbed have competition among i) photochemistry, ii) heat dissipation through non- photochemical quenching, and iii) chlorophyll fluorescence reflecting back the light. The transport of electrons and protons from water to nicotinamide-adeninedinucleotide- phosphate (NADP) and also in the phosphorylation of ADP to ATP is the main route through which the absorbed light energy is utilized. The energy in the form of electron may be used in defense mechanism by antioxidant enzymes activation to prevent stress impacts at cellular level.