 Placement of chimney lamp at the centre of the platform surrounded by small poles, covered with red plastic cover or red colour plastic bucket gives the appearance of fire in the field. This prevents the entry of forest animals in the field. Keywords: false image, forest animals, small platform, red plastic cover Farmers of Nadi II village of Peesangam in Ajmer district of Rajasthan use 10-15 kg plants of aak (Calotropis sp.) for controlling termite. The bunch of aak plant is kept in the water channels from where water enters the field when its sap is secreted out and reaches the field where termites are there. These plants are slightly mashed before keeping in water channels. The plants are trampled while they are kept in water channels. About 60-65% farmers are using this technique since ages. Key words: aak, water channel, termite (Tamil Nadu) 636 903 Shri P. Manickam, S/o Shri Pichan, P.O. Melvadapadi, Vadakananthal, Sankarapuram, Villupuram (Tamil Nadu) 606 207 Shri Ramesh, S/o Shri Bharmal, Nadi II village, Peesangam, Ajmer (Rajasthan) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2884 Control of termite in different crops and fruit trees Farmers of many villages in Alwar district of Rajasthan spray a solution of the leaves of arusha (Adhatoda vasica) on crops and in orchards to control termite. In wheat about 750 ml aankda (Calotropis gigantea) milk is taken and poured drop by drop in the irrigation source. It controls termites effectively. Keywords: termite, fruit, arusha, buttermilk Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat, (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 2885 Control of termites in plants by use of nagali and nafatiya Roots of nagali (Eleusine coracana) and leaves of nafatiya (Ipomoea fistulosa) plants are boiled and allowed to cool. The prepared decoction is filtered and sprayed on the termite-affected plants. Sometimes it is poured on the base of the stem so that it can reach the root zone of the plants. Key words: nagali, nafatiya, termite control Shri Posalebhai Pandubhai, Ratilal R. Ganvit, Borpada, Ahwa Dang (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380015 2886 Control of mites in coconut by use of neem oil and garlic 2887 Control of rhinoceros beetle in coconut by use of opium and Ficus Mites in coconut plantation is controlled effectively by using a solution of neem oil and garlic paste mixed in soap solution. About 200 ml neem (Azadirachta indica A. Juss) oil and 200 g garlic (Allium sativum L.) paste is mixed in 1.5 litres soap solution. Another solution is made with 200 ml neem oil and 200 g garlic with 300 ml water. Then both the solutions are mixed together and diluted with 9 litres water. The prepared solution @ 1.