 education, research and extension education, and not meeting the essential parameters for autonomy to university and college should not be provided accreditation and development grants by the Education Division, ICAR. (iii) A letter from Hon’ble Agriculture Minister to all Chief Ministers may be sent expressing concern about the inadequate funding and faculty in agricultural universities. The letter may emphasize on filling of the faculty positions and also, that the AUs must adhere to the Model Act for uniformity of structure and greater efficiency. (iv) A sensitization workshop may be organized for all possible members and chairmen of the Peer Review Teams regarding the process and requirements of accreditation, expectations from the review teams and the report contents. (v) There should be wider publicity of the mandate of Accreditation Board and, its need and procedures for quality assurance. [Action: All VCs/ADG (EQR)] Agenda 4.3: International Cooperation Programmes ADG (EQR) mentioned that with the cooperation of agricultural universities, 88 African candidates and 10 Afghan candidates have so far been admitted in different AUs under India- Africa and India-Afghanistan Fellowship Programmes. Some other candidates are yet to join and also, the African Union has issued the third call for applications. The foreign students have expressed the following difficulties with regard to pursuing their education in Indian AUs, as follows- (i) Use of Hindi as medium of instruction: It is requested that in all AUs, particularly in the courses where foreign students are studying, the medium of instruction may be English only. (ii) Financial hardship due to delay in payment of fellowship: As has already been requested through letters, the universities are requested to facilitate the foreign fellows as follows: a) They may consider, as feasible, to make arrangements for pick up of the student(s) from the nearest airport for which, any expenditure made will be reimbursed to university, on demand, by the MEA through DARE. b) It has come to knowledge that some students are finding it difficult to pay the total fee at the time of admission. The university may therefore, allow admission to such students after taking an undertaking from them that the university fees, as applicable, will be paid by them later or deducted from their fellowship amount. As per the provisions of the Fellowship Scheme, each fellow will be paid Rs. 12,000/- p.m. for M.Sc. and Rs. 15,000/- p.m. for Ph.D. programme. All expenditure towards tuition fee, hostel fee, mess, medical, contingency and travel within the country etc. during the course will be borne by the student utilizing the consolidated fellowship amount. c) The university may inform the ICAR/DARE immediately after joining of the student(s) so that the bench fee and fellowship amount to be paid to the student may be sent by the DARE to the university immediately.