 Improvement in body weight gain and feed LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 78 evaluation of locally available fruit and vegetable waste, revealed that it contains a very good level of energy and low to moderate level of protein. Silage was prepared using fruit and vegetable waste. Crossbred (HS × Ghungroo) grower pigs fed on waste silage supplemented basal diet showed no significant difference on nutrient digestibility except crude fibre digestibility which reduced with increase in silage level in diet. There was no significant difference on average daily gain (g/day), feed intake per kg gain (FCR) and feed cost per kg gain. However, FCR and feed cost per kg gain was better at 10% supplementation of vegetable silage in the diet. Yak Post-weaning performance of calves: Weaning is an important management tool of a dairy farm management for optimum production performance of dam and calf. Yak calves and dams gave better performance after partial weaning at an age of 3 to 4 months without supplementation of calf starter and also showed enhanced milk production in their dams. Physiology Cattle Effect of seminal plasma prostasomes on spermatozoa: Prostasomes were isolated from seminal plasma of KF and Sahiwal cows to study its effect on semen quality. The prostasomes interacted with spermatozoa in semen and enhanced motility, ATP production, viability, mitochondrial membrane potential of spermatozoa and maintenance of acrosome integrity to improve the semen quality. Leptin concentration, matrix metalloproteinase activity in the spermatozoa also increased with prostasome incubation. Prostasomes enhanced the calcium signalling approximately 3-fold Performance of Hisar-Gaurav and Sach-Gaurav cloned bulls • Hisar-Gaurav attained 780 kg body weight and growing normal with good health. All the parameters of a breeding bull such as reaction time (39.5 sec), mean semen volume (2.73 ml), mean sperm concentration (1,023 million/ml), mean mass motility (3.38) and other semen variables were found normal. • Hisar-Gaurav cloned bull produced 12 progenies. • Frozen semen doses (9,200) from Hisar-Gaurav are available in stock. • Sach-Gaurav, Assamese buffalo clone is growing well and has attained weight of 387 kg and this clone was shifted to institute farm after weaning at the age of 12 months. Udder health management The infrared thermography (IRT) is effective, non-invasive, on-site diagnostic technology for assessment of physiological-pathological status and offers unique opportunity to investigate temperature variations in udder tissue for udder health assessment, detection of subclinical mastitis and effectiveness of therapeutics adopted. An eight-month pregnant Murrah buffalo heifer with development of one abnormal teat, appearing shrunken with lesser growth was studied. Few drops of milk were squeezed out which tested positive for commensal Coagulase Negative Staphylococcus (CNS) species indicating subclinical mastitis.