 The chicken mass spectra data sets comprised 147,451 MS scans and 19,917 MS/MS scans. Total 120,000 MS spectra and 30,000 MS/MS spectra were identified in duck proteome dataset. At local FDR 5% level, 3,313 and 2,095 proteins were identified in chicken and duck lungs, respectively. This was studied in conjunction with the meta-analysis of transcriptome data of AIV infected lungs of these species. The activation of critical pathways namely, TLR, RLR, NLR, ILIR, and JAK-STAT signaling pathways in response to HPAI H5N1 infection in chicken and duck lungs with variation in the numbers of proteins involved in each species, was seen. The high level upregulation of cytokines, chemokines and interferon stimulated genes with 1 to 6 fold change were observed in chicken lung tissues. However, the expression of critical antiviral genes was upregulated in duck lung tissues. The overabundance of cytokines, chemokines and interferon stimulated genes (ISGs) results in cytokine storm and widespread tissue damage leading to susceptibility of chicken to HPAI H5N1 infection. Activation of critical proteins in RIG-I/MAVS/IFNAR1- dependent antiviral pathways, leads to regulation of virus replication with minimal tissue damage thus resulting in tolerance to HPAI H5N1 infection in ducks. Development and improvement of diagnostics FMD: Diagnostic performance of serum neutralization test (SNT) and liquid phase blocking ELISA (LPBE) in FMD vaccinated animals was assessed. Replacing the use of animals for quality assessment with in vitro tests like serum neutralization test (SNT) or liquid phase blocking ELISA (LPBE) requires establishment of logistic regression model from series of challenge experiments. Before establishing logistic regression model, relationship between SNT and LPBE titer was assessed for classifying cattle as protected and unprotected. SNT and LPBE were carried out on known negative (n=306) and positive samples against FMDV O/IND/R2/1975 (n=92), A/IND/40/2000 (n=16) and Asia1/IND/63/1972 (n=11) to evaluate the diagnostic and performance characteristics by receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curves. Using 471 bovine trivalent FMD vaccinated serum, the relationship between SN50 and LPBE50 titers was analysed following linear regression modeling. PPR: Peptide-activated AuNPs was successfully applied for visual sensing of peste-des-petits-ruminants virus (PPRV). Conjugation of PPRV ligand peptides was accomplished on Au nanoparticles and visual detection of PPRV was observed based on plasmon color change from red to blue. Listeriosis: Three in-house developed ELISAs (wLLO-, rLLO- and rPI-PLC-based ELISAs) for diagnosis of listeriosis were evaluated on clinical samples (136 caprine, 106 bovine, 92 porcine) in comparison to isolation of pathogenic Listeria monocytogenes. rLLO-based ELISA showed higher specificity than the widely used wLLO-based ELISA and rPI-PLC-based ELISA, which showed high cross- reactivity.