1%). Despite the extensive coverage, enrolments in agriculture sciences at under graduate (UG) and post graduate (PG) levels as compared to popular disciplines such as medical and social sciences are low. This lacuna in agricultural higher education can be attributed to the fact that agriculture and allied sectors are not necessarily “aspirational”. There is low awareness about the need for entrepreneurship skills in the sector which largely stems from the lack of clarity about qualifications in agriculture and the pathways to agricultural higher education. National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 The NEP 2020 rolled out by Government of India, addresses the many growing developmental imperatives of the country, Enrolment ratio in higher education in some disciplines in India Sector Under Graduate Post Graduate Medical sciences 4.18% 4.01% Social sciences 3.17% 1.8% Agriculture sciences (including horticulture, fisheries, veterinary and animal sciences) 0.96% 0.82% by revising and revamping all aspects of the education structure, including its regulation and governance. The policy sets out to create a new education system that is aligned with the aspirational goals of 21st century, including global education development agenda reflected in the Goal 4 (SDG4) of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, adopted by India in 2015, while also building upon India’s traditions and value systems. With respect to agricultural education system, the NEP 2020 focuses on redesigning the curriculum with greater push towards developing professionals with the ability to understand and use local and traditional knowledge, and emerging technologies while being cognizant of critical issues such as declining land and productivity, climate change, food sufficiency for our growing population, etc. Agricultural education would play a significant role in boosting the economy and accelerate the development process of our country. It can create a landmark in achieving food security and sustainability for >1.4 billion Indians. Lack of education and guidance among children about agriculture is the biggest challenge in making agriculture an aspiration avenue for India. Education increases productivity by improving the decision-making ability and capability to make informed choices and decisions concerning the selection and the combination of input for better output. Need for agricultural education in schools The NEP 2020 calls for reinvigorating the agricultural education system to increase agricultural productivity through the development of a generation of students with active interest in agriculture and allied disciplines, driving cutting-edge research and innovation in addition to developing agricultural skills as life skills. To attract young talent in agriculture, it is important to strengthen the pathway from school to higher education.