 In ovo administration of GnRH during embryogenesis advanced the desired body weight of post hatch broiler chicken by one week with optimum physiological functioning and production, while maintaining high level of body growth with high quality meat protein. Housing management: Floor space of 540 sq cm/ laying bird was sufficient to have better production and welfare in laying birds. Further increasing the floor space beyond 540 sq cm did not provide additional benefits/ welfare to the birds. Livestock protection Disease informatics: The National Animal Disease Referral Expert System (NADRES) is a system that builds on the added value of coordinating the alert and response mechanisms for the stakeholders to assist in prediction, prevention and control of animal disease threats, including zoonoses. This is done through sharing of information, epidemiological analysis and joint field missions to assess and control the outbreak, whenever needed. The monthly disease outbreaks occurrence in various states at district level are predicted two months in advance. The prediction results, risk maps, bulletins and post prediction maps were updated on NADRES web application (NADRES version 2). A forecasting bulletin is sent to all the State Animal Husbandry Departments and DAHD, Government of India for initiating preventive action. Further, animal disease prediction for Karnataka at the block level was pilot tested and the predicted results were communicated through auto messaging to field veterinarians to undertake preventive measures in the villages under their jurisdiction. An epidemiological alert for African swine fever was formulated for preparedness to prevent possible necessary transboundary transmission. Artificial intelligence systems were applied for prediction of Anthrax disease incidence pattern, risk and clustering in Karnataka, and spatial mapping and prediction of classical swine fever disease in India. Nation-wide sampling plan for FMD sero-surveillance and sero-monitoring in India was framed. Remote sensing and meteorological parameters at block level were prepared. Updated aquatic disease maps were uploaded in National Surveillance Program for Aquatic Animal Diseases (NSPAAD) web application. Mobile Apps were designed to give details on haemonchosis disease in Rajasthan, and also on leptospirosis covering veterinary public health aspects. Epidemiology Screening of small ruminant serum samples for bluetongue virus antibodies revealed 58% and 43% seroprevalence in goats and sheep, respectively. The highest population for PPR immunity was observed in Maharashtra (74%) followed by Gujarat (67.2%), Rajasthan (63.7%) and Chhattisgarh (51.6%). For brucellosis, highest seroprevalence was recorded in sheep (12.4%) from Jammu & Kashmir and goat samples (5.2%) from Tamil Nadu. Seronegativity was observed for both sheep and goat samples from Chhattisgarh. Pig serum samples showed that 38.