 Involvement of KVKs in such large number of programmes is bound to enhance the visibility of the KVKs at zonal and national level, but at the same time affects the mandated activities of KVKs. Involvement of KVKs should be restricted within the framework of mandated activities. ●On the Intellectual Property front, KVKs can play a major role in facilitating identification and registration of farmer’s varieties as well as innovative processes developed from time to time in crop and livestock sector. ●The activities like training, demonstration, seed production, nursery raising, para-vet training, poultry farming, off season vegetables, production of organic inputs, cultivation of pulses, bee- keeping, mushroom production, etc. are some of the technologies/initiatives which have impact on the the socio-economic at the village level. ●Each KVK should identify its niche area/flagship programme based on its strength and focus its activities to make wider impact. ●Though the institutional training, especially vocational training should form core of the KVK 48 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of Krishi Vigyan Kendra training programme, yet at several KVKs institutional long-term trainings need to be conducted. KVKs may look into this by developing appropriate modules. ●Each KVK must assess and refine at least two technologies per year for recommending to the district development departments for large scale adoption. ●The staff strength needs re-examination in view of expanding mandate and nature and extent of new tasks assigned. The new job requires constant change, diversification, and newer skills. The emphasis on science plus (Research for Development) in research system is a new concept. ●The farmers as well as different stakeholders are pursuing for establishing more and more KVKs probably because the farmers look towards KVK as a functional unit through which they are getting several benefits. 49 Annexures ANNEXURE-IV Chairman’s letter on interim recommendations 50 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of Krishi Vigyan Kendra 51 Annexures ANNEXURE-V Constitution of Scientific Advisory Committee and its procedural guidelines 1. Constitution of Scientific Advisory Committee (SAC) The SAC is an institutional arrangement to provide necessary technical and management guidance to KVK in developing effective technical programme, annual action plan and review of activities. KVKs should conduct one SAC meeting in each year and it should be held preferably during the second half of the financial year before the finalization of action plan. SAC meeting is to be chaired by the Vice-Chancellor / Director of ICAR Institute/Head of host Organizations of their respective KVKs. Since in SAUs there are more than one KVK, the SAC could be chaired by Director of Extension Educcation in the absence of Vice- Chancellors. But SAC recommendations should be got approved from the Vice Chancellor only.