 : 978-81-7164-179-6 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 10 October 2024 Diversification of cropping system through vegetable crops for higher productivity and profitability S. K. Singh*, Neeraj Singh, D. R. Bhardwaj, Shubhadeep Roy, Yashpal Singh and Raghvendra Singh ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Jakkhini, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 305 The diversification of traditional cropping systems through the integration of vegetable crops has proven to be a valuable strategy for enhancing productivity and profitability. This study conducted at ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi under The Farmer FIRST Programme, highlights the potential of vegetable-based cropping systems to improve income and nutritional security. By incorporating high-yielding, disease-resistant vegetables like tomato, bottle gourd, and cauliflower into rice-based cropping systems, farmers observed substantial increases in rice equivalent yields (REY), gross returns, and benefit-cost ratio. The rice-cauliflower-cowpea sequence achieved the highest REY and profitability compared to the conventional rice-wheat system. Vegetable diversification not only boosts productivity and economic returns but also generates employment opportunities, strengthens food security, and supports sustainable agriculture. This approach, focusing on a mix of seasonal and off-season vegetables, presents a practical solution for achieving the dual goals of higher farm income and enhanced nutritional outcomes in the Indo- Gangetic plains. Keywords: Crop diversification, Cropping systems, Nutritional security, Rice equivalent yield, Sustainable agriculture, Vegetable V EGETABLES are consumed for nutrition and health maintenance, while many are valued for their therapeutic properties and disease prevention. In addition to being sources of highly digestible carbohydrates and nutritionally complete protein, vegetables are also excellent sources of essential nutrients, glucosinolates, antioxidants, fibre, and vitamins, particularly niacin, riboflavin, thiamine, and vitamins A and C. Vegetables are the best resources for overcoming micronutrient deficiencies. A judicious mix of vegetables can provide the recommended daily allowance for vitamins and folate, as well as significant amounts of other essential minerals required for human health. As food crops, vegetables play an important role in achieving nutritional security. According to NIN recommendations, the daily intake of vegetables should be 350 g per capita. However, despite India being the second-largest vegetable- producing country in the world—accounting for nearly 16.5% of global vegetable production—the per capita availability of vegetables is only 292.