 As a result, such technology can revolutionize the synergy among knowledge systems by providing more opportunities to farmers and other stakeholders to refine and experiment with various sustainable agricultural practices. In recent past, the satellite imagery and remote sensing for precision agriculture, smartphone apps for agronomic guidance and market information, and online platforms for knowledge sharing and collaboration between farmers, researchers, and other stakeholders have proved in achieving success in sustainable agriculture. Additionally, the data analysis and modelling may further help scientific knowledge to maximize the agricultural operations and making farm level decisions. GIS, simulation models, and machine learning algorithms may help researchers and farmers examine complicated relationships between crops, soils, climate, and management approaches, improving resource efficiency and environmental effects. Therefore, modern information systems have considerable benefits, but making them accessible and relevant to farmers, especially smallholders in developing countries, is difficult. Scientific knowledge systems can help create a more sustainable and equitable global agricultural system by addressing challenges like the digital divide, context-specific solutions, and participatory research where local resources including knowledge can be contextualized. Promoting knowledge systems in sustainable agriculture: Role of G20 As a forum, the G20 countries have ample opportunities to share the science, technologies and knowledge systems to influence sustainable agriculture. With such process, the G20 members can maximize the share of different knowledge systems discussed above with establishing active collaboration. Neither formal nor informal knowledge systems alone can solve the regional and global environmental sustainability challenges. This may require partnerships and active collaborations among different stakeholders represented by G20 countries. This process can inculcate reciprocal learning on diverse knowledge systems, their refinement– if needed, and integration with policies to strengthen sustainable agriculture. As a result, this process can also provide further opportunities among different stakeholders of G20 countries for devising effective policies, innovative technology, and sustainable agriculture through dialogues, working groups, and forums. G20 policy and standards on sustainable agriculture are vital, and member countries can foster sustainable agriculture by coordinating rules, incentives, and standards. Therefore, this mechanism can lower the trade obstacles, help in transfer of technology, and encouraging sustainability cooperation.