 iii) Directors of the Institutes of the Council in the region. iv) Scientific/technical representatives of Agricultural Universities, State Depart- ments, Central Institutes and Department of Agriculture of the Union Ministry of Agriculture, and v) farmers nominated by the President. **vi) Two members from non-governmental organisations engaged in rural develop- ment in the region nominated by the presi- dent. (d) The membership of the Regional Committee shall be regulated mutatis mutandis in accord- ance with the provisions of Rules 6 to 11. Functions 61. The functions of the Regional Committee shall be to:- i) review the status of agricultural research and education in the region, and ii) analyse, discuss in depth and make recom- mendations on the location specific problems of agriculture, animal husbandry, fisheries and forestry peculiar to the region. Provided that the Governing Body may from time to time enlarge or curtail the scope, authority and func- tions of a Regional Committee. * Provided further that where the Minister-incharge of Agriculture/animal Husbandry/Fisheries from the States also participate in the meetings of the Regional Committees in their capacity as Members of the Society, the meetings shall be chaired by the senior most Minister-incharge of Agriculture/Animal Husbandry/Fisheries of the host State. (Reference discussions on item No. 2 of the Agenda for the Special General Meeting of the ICAR Society held on 30.1.1976 vide No. 55(2)/76-CDN (I) dated 24th April. 1976). *' New Rule 60(c)(vi) added in the existing rule (Vide Notification No. 6(10) 193-CSC dt. 5th August 1993). 22 Notice of meeting 62. All meetings of the Regional Committee shall be called by notice in writing by and under the hand of the Member-Secretary of the Committee. Quorum 63. One third of the members of the Regional Committee shall constitute the quorum for any meeting of the Committee. Frequency 64. The provisions of Rules 42, 43 (ii) and 45 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the Regional Committee. The meetings of the Regional Committee shall be called at least once in two years. /') Action on 65. The proceedings of the Regional Committee including recommendations its views and recommendations on various matters considered by it shall be placed before the next meet- ing of the Governing Body for information and for is- sue of such directions as it may deem proper. XIII. MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES Constitution 66.