 The ceramic water ﬁlters thus baked are locally named G Filters (Gupta et al., 2016). Characterization of Ceramics Fig. 15(a) shows the microstructure of ﬁred ceramics for water ﬁltration. The scanning electron microscopic image Fig. 15(a) showcases the presence of heterogeneous pore distribution over the clay matrix. The pore size distribution range and porosity Fig. 13 Water temperature proﬁles within the distinct cruse during August at Jodhpur. Fig. 14 Steps for the manufacture of the ceramic water ﬁlter at Banad village, Rajasthan. 944 Use of Clayey Salty Soils and its Composite Derivatives for Construction and Ceramics for Household Use correlations are shown in Fig. 15(b). It can be inferred that the high frequency of porosity is contributed by the pores in the range between 0.02 and 5 microns. This porosity range is at par with the average porosity values of frustum shaped ceramic water ﬁlters manufactured at other parts of the globe using a factory mode. Microbial Removal Efﬁcacy E. coli (Escherichia coli) is an indicator bacterium for occurrence of bacterial pathogens and for fecal contamination (Brown et al., 2008; Plappally et al., 2011a,b). The E. coli ﬁltration experiments were performed on the three separate ceramic water ﬁlters manufactured at Banad, Sar and Salawas in Jodhpur District, Rajasthan. Locally these water ﬁlters are known as G Filter. The contaminated water when ﬁltered through these devices provided a log removal in the range 2.5–2.8 (Gupta et al., 2018). These tests adhered to ISO 9308–1:2014 framework (Paulinus Chigbu, 2007). The contaminated water suspension was similar to the contamination level (106–108 cells/ml) observed in the Yamuna river, India (CPCB, 2012). Predicting Flow Through Frustum Shaped Ceramic Water Filters Using geometrical extension of Darcy’s porous ﬂow model For any porous media, Darcy’s Law states that ﬂow rate (Q) is directly proportional to change in pressure head (DP), cross-section area of ﬂow and inversely proportional to the thickness t of the media. The law is valid as long as ﬂow is laminar. The Darcy’s law may be expressed as Q ¼  kADP=mt ð1Þ Here k is the intrinsic permeability of the porous media, A is the surface area (of porous media of thickness t) through which the transport of water or ﬂuid may occur and DP is the head of water or ﬂuid column above the percolating surface. The Darcy’s law for water ﬂow through porous media will change with temperature. At 251C the density of water is 999.041 Kg/m3 and viscosity takes value 8.935e–4 Pa.s while at 401C, density of water will be 989.418 Kg/m3, and viscosity will become 6.533e–4 Pa.s. The ﬂow rate through such a porous media with a frustum shape as shown in Fig.