 Keywords: garlic bulb, earthen pot, preservation, freshness Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2480 Enhancing productivity of onion Farmers of Sundakadu village of Sivagangai district of Tami Nadu are using this practice for enhancing productivity of onion for more than 10 years. Instead of inorganic fertilizers, the farmers use decomposed Cassia Dr S. Gopal Training Associate, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Kendrakudi, Sivagangai (Tamil Nadu) 630 206  leaves (75 kg) with cowdung slurry (@ 125 kg) for improving the colour, number and size of onion bulb. There is 25-30 % increase in yield with this practice. Keywords: Casssia leaves, cowdung slurry, onion bulb, increase in yield 2303 Storage of onion bulbs for long duration After harvesting of onion, the bulbs are stored in a locally prepared structure made of wooden sticks or bamboo. By this the bulbs can be stored easily for 6-7 months. Keywords: onion bulb, wooden or bamboo structure Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2487 Control of semilooper in onion For controlling semi looper in onion farmers spray kerosene oil and ash on the crop. Kerosene and ash act as sticking material which minimize movement of the pest, resulting in reduction in crop loss. Cultivation of ajwain in the periphery of onion field also attracts the semilooper. Keywords: onion, kerosene, ash, ajwain Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2303 Moving of gunny bag on the standing onion crop in foggy climate Onion is the major vegetable crop of some pockets of Solapur and Ahmednagar districts both during kharif and rabi seasons. If the weather becomes foggy, there may be chances of blight disease in onion, which may cause heavy loss in crop yield. To avoid such losses, farmers move an empty gunny bag on leafy part of onion plants early in the morning or irrigate the crop early in the morning. Keywords: onion crop, gunny bag, foggy climate, blight Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2488 Protection of vegetable nurseries against various insect-pest This practice is common in the remote hilly areas of Ram Nagar, Budu, Gool etc. of Jammu and Kashmir district, where farmers usually smoke hukka. The smoking process is such that when a person starts smoking, the smoke comes after passing through water, Communicated by: Dr M. P.