 Monetary loss due to production loss in this occupied area 1,000.00 C. Total costs involved in producing 5 tonnes of compost (A+B) 6,500.00 D. Price realised by selling 5 tonnes of compost 5,000.00 E. Net loss to the farmer per ha of land -1,500.00  37 Recommendations T HE various options for Ex-situ management of crop residues considered by the committee are as follows: • Biomass pellets from crop residues as a fuel substitution in thermal power plants • Biogas production from paddy straw at domestic / community level • Industrial level production of Biogas / Bio-CNG / Compressed Bio-gas (CBG) from Paddy Straw • Power Generation from Biomass • Alcohol production from paddy straw (lignocellulosic biomass) • Ex-situ Composting of Paddy Straw. Utilization of crop residues as a fuel for power generation will not only discourage in-field crop residue burning abating air pollution, but will also reduce carbon footprint of coal based power plants. Bio-CNG / Compressed Bio-gas (CBG) producing projects may be integrated with existing retail networks of Oil PSUs and other industries relying on gas based energy. It will provide off-take assurance for crop residues to the CBG project developers. Govt. of India has allowed procurement of ethanol produced from non-food feedstock cellulose and lignocelluloses based materials besides molasses, subject to meeting the relevant BIS standards. The following table shows the cost economics and other related details of each of the six options of ex-situ crop residue management: Recommendations in thermal power plants Table 14. Summary of Options and Recommendations of the Committee Sl. No. Ex-situ Management Option Remarks 1. Biomass pellets from crop • This option is recommended for further residues as a fuel substitution consideration • Substituting biomass pellets from crop residues at the rate of 10% of the coal, will increase the cost of production by 20 paisa per unit of power. • If all the existing power plants in North India (with an installed capacity of 44,560 MW) substitute their fuel with paddy straw 38 Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options Sl. No. Ex-situ Management Option Remarks based pellets then they will consume 17.82 million tons of paddy straw every year. Nearly the entire problem will be solved. • There is no additional expenditure or subsidy needed from Government. 2. Biogas production from • This option is recommended for further paddy straw at domestic/ consideration • Cost of PAU Model – II biogas plant is ` 2.1 lakhs and its life is 20 years. • For a breakeven on expenditure for the farmer the government need to extend a one time support at the rate of 60% of the cost of the plant. • If one biogas plant per farm in Punjab is established then the budget required for one time subsidy will be ` 13,860 crores (for nearly 1.1. million land holdings). • These 1.1 million biogas plants will consume 5.28 million tonnes of paddy straw every year. 3.