2: The last Special Interactive Meeting of Vice-Chancellors, Directors (Research), Directors (Extension) and Comptrollers of Agricultural Universities with Project Co-ordinators (AICRP) and Zonal Project Directors held on 26-27 September 2011 Since no comments were received, the proceedings of the last Special Interactive Meeting of Vice-Chancellors, Directors (Research), Directors (Extension) and Comptrollers of Agricultural Universities with Project Co-ordinators (AICRP) and Zonal Project Directors held on 26-27 September 2011 were confirmed. Agenda 2: Action Taken Reports on the recommendations Agenda 2.1: Vice Chancellors of Agricultural Universities and Interface with ICAR Directors held on 22-23 February, 2011 ADG (EPD) presented the Action Taken Report. It was accepted after discussion. Agenda 2.2: Special VCs Meeting held on 26-27 September, 2011 ADG (EPD) presented the Action Taken Report which was accepted after discussion. Agenda 3: Regarding furnishing AUC by the universities The eight AUs who had not submitted their AUCs were requested to submit the same at the earliest as all activities like sanction of EL units, etc. must have to be completed by 31st March 2012. The DDG (Edn.) has informed that in XII Plan, a lot of measures would be taken with regards to students’ welfare, teachers training and others under NAEP. Agenda 4: Education Quality Reforms: Issues & Progress Agenda 4.1: Counselling and Placement Cells in AUs Dr. R.K. Mittal, ADG (EQR) informed that in the recent meeting of the Accreditation Board held under the Chairmanship of Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR, it was recommended that “much greater emphasis” is needed by all agricultural universities, on personality development and communication language. Dr. Chandrasekhar, Director of Research, TNAU, Coimbatore to make a presentation about the Counselling and Placement Cell at TNAU Dr. Chandrasekhar depicted the structure, functioning, and output, and other related information on TNAU cell. All the universities were requested to follow such modes in the creation and maintenance of effective student Counselling and Career Placement Cell. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 4.2 : Recommendations of Accreditation Board ADG (EQR) informed that in the recent meeting of Accreditation Board held under the chairmanship of Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR the following recommendations were made for due compliance by all concerned: (i) The funding to SAUs should be linked with its status of Accreditation. (ii) Any university making deviations from the procedure of appointment of VC as mentioned in Model Act, not having ICAR representative on Board of Management and Selection Committees for faculty and University Officers, not filling the statutory positions on regular basis, not having trinity of functions i.e.