 For example, decrease in crop yield would lead to poverty, hunger and malnutrition, which would impact socially led urban immigration, gender imbalances, exploitation, corruption and can lead to increase in crime, which in turn can lead to national movements impacting national economics. This shows how all are interlinked and how small changes can lead to severe impacts. At the IRRI, rice breeding is directly aligned with agronomical goal to meet food security. Breeding is done to develop high yielding varieties, biotic and abiotic stress resistant varieties. At present, more focus is on nutrition and grain quality such as low glycemic index and high protein rice. Genetic studies on glycemic index are very important and work on this is to obtain the requisite genes that can be used to turn any variety into low GI variety. By using integrative omics (omics refers to a field of study in biological sciences that ends with-omics, such as genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, or metabolomics), we can improve grain quality and quantity. Advancements in omics technologies have provided a strong platform for reliable exploration of genetic resources involved in rice trait development. The most effective way to improve rice grain yield is to increase the number of grains filled per panicle (FGN) through breeding. Understanding the mechanisms controlling FGN has become an important research field in rice biotechnology and breeding. The regulation of rice FGN is coordinately controlled by panicle architecture and branch differentiation and the FGN- associated genes showed pleiotropic effect in regulating tillering, grain size, flowering time and other domestication- related traits. Predictive models are needed to predict crop yield even before the experimentation taking into consideration such pleiotropic genes. Seed cast is an app based digital tool 63 Contemporary Agricultural Research designed to reliably and quickly collate seed demand from dealers leveraging dealer farmers network, this app also has other use cases fulfilling the farmers and dealer’s requirement. Seed cast helps in communication and linkages between producers, distributors, regulators and users of seed. There are some bottlenecks to grow more rice which include greenhouse gas emission from rice field, biotic and abiotic stresses and post-harvest losses due to climate change. Climate-Smart Agriculture (CSA) approach can help to manage agricultural systems responding effectively to climate change. Key takeaways Understanding the gaps between science and technology and then integrating them in plan would lead to progress. Collate genotypic and phenotypic data from all institutes on to one platform for development of varieties. 64 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series EFFICIENT WATER FOR AGRICULTURE Suresh Kumar Chaudhari Though water is considered as an infinite resource, but only a fraction of one per cent of earth’s freshwater is readily accessible for human needs.