 FLD organized by Institutions of ICAR/SAUs during Rabi 2012-13 indicates an average yield gap of 109% over National Average Yield (NAY) and 21% to 300% over SAY under irrigated/rainfed conditions in the safflower growing States, which could be minimized by adoption of improved package of practices including application of protective irrigation. 334 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 State Yield kg/ha Yield Gap (%) SAU FLD Rabi 2012-13 (Irrigated) 544 1079 98 Rabi-2012-13 (Rainfed) 544 1038 91 All India 576 1203 109 Constraints in Sugarcane i. Lack of scientific varietal and seasonal planning for planting and harvesting by the sugar mills. ii. Lack of consideration of varieties according to maturity group and genetic characters. iii. No implementation of three phase / tier quality seed production (B, F, C) chain. iv. Over irrigation/moisture stress (Load shedding, uncertain monsoon). v. Non adoption of INM, IPM, IDM and Weed Management technology. vi. No proper crop rotation. vii. Improper intercropping. viii. Poor and neglected ratoon management. ix. No adoption of improved farm implements and machinery and advanced technology. x. Over number of sugar mills without considering ecological jurisdiction and potential. xi. Fluctuating / Non assurance of cane prices. xii. Unforeseen natural calamites namely drought, excess rains, outbreak of pests-diseases, uncertain climate (temperature) etc. Constraints in Cotton i. More than 95 % area is under rainfed cultivation ii. Growing of cotton on low fertile and shallow soils. iii. Due to erratic and irregular rainfall pattern, crops suffer and there is also a risk of crop failure under aberrant weather situation. iv. Sometime due to delayed onset of monsoon and early withdrawal, prospects of good crop cannot be assured. v. Intermittent dry spells during July and August followed by cessation of monsoon activity usually by the middle of September leads to non-availability of requisite moisture and concomitantly nutrients at the later stage of boll development usually in the latter part of October. vi. Non availability of quality seed of promising cultivars. vii. Gap in adoption of improved production technologies like IPM, IRM and intercropping etc. 335 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 viii. Losses due to pest and diseases. ix. Temperature increased during square & flowering resulted into dropping of square & flowering of bolls. x. Para-wilting and reddening in Bt cotton increasing day by day. xi. Crop rotation not followed by farmers, facing N, P, K,S, Fe and Zn deficiency in soils. xii. Lack of irrigation facilities. xiii. High incidence of Pink boll worm drastically reduces the yield. Horticulture Data reveal that productivity of many of the horticultural crops grown in Maharashtra are less than the achievable yield. Though the yield gaps are less for crops llike grape, productivity of gua is less than 50% of the achievable yield.