 Recharging 129 bore wells near the tanks by 3 feet benefitted 242 farmers. The adoption of resilient technologies led to notable increases in yield: paddy by 11.5%, groundnut by 15.8-38%, tomato by 11.6-24.5%, and mango by 12.7%. These climate-resilient practices have played a significant role in mitigating the adverse effects of climatic aberrations in the NICRA cluster villages over the years. Keywords: Climate, Irrigation, NICRA, Productivity, Resilience, Yield Implementation of the project ICRA project was implemented in Chittecherla and Deendarlaaplli villages in Chinnagottigallu mandal in the erstwhile Chittoor district during 2015- 2021. The climate is hot at the time of summer season and moderate during winter season. The majority of the soils are red loam and red sands. About 350 farm families are in the village and most of them are small and marginal farmers. The agriculture mainly depend on rains and irrigation under tanks and bore wells. The major crops grown are paddy, groundnut, tomato and mango and farmers depend mostly on dairy activity. The cluster villages received less than normal rainfall, i.e. 770 mm and experiences severe drought situation. The main objective of NICRA project is to motivate the farming community to utilize the available resources effectively and efficiently through conservation of soil and water besides imparting technical skills to improve productivity and livestock management. Indian Farming Natural resource management: Under this module, interventions related to rain water harvesting, soil and water conservation, green manuring, supplemental irrigation and recharge of bore wells were taken up in the cluster villages. Renovation of community irrigation tanks Clearing of unwanted vegetation and deepening of the tanks (11 nos.), strengthening of tank bunds and desilting activities were carried out under NRM activity with community participation. This helped in increasing the water storage capacity (8,721 cu.m) of the tanks and increased ground-water recharge in the bore wells (129 no.) in the vicinity and crops were cultivated in an area of 201 ha which benefited 242 farmers in the cluster villages. Feeder channels were also cleared of vegetation and deepened to improve flow of rain water to the tanks. March 2024 65 Indian Farming 66 March 2024 Conservation of soil moisture in tomato by using polythene mulch The KVK conducted demonstrations on the use of polythene mulch with drip irrigation system in tomato for four years (2015-19) with an objective of soil moisture conservation, weed control at critical stages of crop growth and to improve productivity. Polythene mulch of 25 micron thickness was spread over a raised bed on which holes of 4-5 cm diameter were punched with recommended spacing of 90 x 30 cm of tomato (Sweekar 448 variety).