 It is given as per the requirement of the crop and hence, whatever is given is fully absorbed by the crop without wasting anything and leaving it in the soil, which might have led to environmental pollution. Features of smart farming Main objective of smart farming is to minimize the input application and simultaneously increase the Comparison of yields under TF and eCBSF in cassava and banana plantation Comparison of yield under e-Crop based smart farming (eCBSF) and traditional farming (TF) in different crops Yield gap reduction in cassava by eCBSF productivity many folds. Smart farming is ultimately precision farming, which helps to extract maximum genetic potential without adding any pressure on the natural resources. Reduced use of natural resources results in its conservation and also reduction in the environmental pollution. Many are apprehensive about the cost of smart farming technology. There is a general belief that small and marginal farmers cannot afford to adopt this technology. Another apprehension is that it leads to unemployment in the farm sector. Though the initial cost for setting up of smart farm is high, its benefits are innumerable. Once set up, it can be maintained for years with some meager maintenance cost. In states like Kerala where collective efforts like group farming is already in practice, adoption of this technology in the similar way is a feasible option. Smart farming is not a new concept. It is getting enriched day-by-day with the developments in ICT and AI. Developed countries have already jumped into smart farming to realize another green revolution with this technology. We should not wait for long to adopt it for the benefit of our people and environment. This is the right time. Another Green Revolution through smart farming will restructure our entire economy. For further interaction, please write to: Dr V. S. Santhosh Mithra (Principal Scientist), ICAR-Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala 695 017. *Corresponding author: vssmithra@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 38 Digital technologies to assess and mitigate the abiotic stress in horticultural crops Technology Amrut S. Morade*, Pratapsingh S. Khapte, Sushil S. Changan, Vijaysinha D. Kakade, Sangram B. Chavan and K. Sammi Reddy T HE Indian horticulture industry is crucial to national food and nutritional security as well as the agricultural economy. However, it faces increasing threats from abiotic stressors such as drought, salinity, extreme temperatures, and irregular rainfall, all of which are exacerbated by climate change. These stressors significantly affect crop yields, putting millions of farmers’ livelihoods at risk. Abiotic stresses pose significant challenges to horticultural crops in India by affecting productivity, quality, and sustainability. Drought is a major concern, particularly in arid and semi-arid regions where water scarcity reduces plant growth, fruit quality, and yield.