 In nutshell, the economic transition of these farmers was downward in nature. Their shift to the non-agricultural sector cannot be viewed as a smooth sailing but it has been a painful transition due to lack of sufficient and remunerative employment opportunities in the non-farm sector. Depletion of Groundwater Resources: Dominance of rice and increase in cropped area contributed to significant rise in demand for irrigation water, which was largely sourced from the groundwater. The dependence on groundwater increased further as there was a significant decline in the extent of rainfall over time. Consequently, groundwater is being over-exploited and water table is falling down. The fall in water table was sharp at the rate of more than 80 cm per annum during 2000-08, while the rate has come down to 55 cm per annum during 2009-15, due to prevention of paddy transplanting before 15th June. The sharp fall in ground water table, rendered obsolete most of the centrifugal pumps in the region, necessitating their replacement by submersible pumps of greater horse power to draw the same amount of irrigation water. Currently, 110 out of 141 development blocks fall in ‘dark’ category. Therefore, sustainability of ground water resources is a big concern in Punjab. Apart from the fall in ground water table in central Punjab, the south-western region of the state faces the problem of salinity and rise in the water table. Lack of value addition: India is the second largest producer of fruits and vegetables in the World but lacks in processing and value addition. Value addition of fruits and vegetables accounts for 7 per cent and processing 455 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 is less than 2 per cent of production. The situation with respect to value addition and processing facilities for agriculture sector is no different in Punjab than India. The agriculture sector of the state has reached a stage where its growth can only be encouraged by increasing area under high value crops/enterprises through encouraging their processing and value addition. Value addition and agro-processing will integrate the market from the producer end to the consumer end and will ensure better and stable prices of these products as well as their profitability over other alternatives. To achieve this objective, policy environment, infrastructure and technology shall have to be fine-tuned. Agro-climatic regions of Punjab Zone Area Climate Problems I. Sub- mountain undulating This region stands in the eastern border of the state about 9.5% of the total area of the state. The Zone-1 includes districts of Pathankot, Ropar, Hoshiarpur, parts of Nawanshahr, Gurdaspur, Mohaliand SBS Nagar The average maximum temperature is 28.1+/- 1.0°C whereas the minimum temperature is 15.5+/- 0.6 °C. The average annual rainfall exceeds 900mm.