 Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher- E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collec- tion, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricul tural Sciences &  Technology, Jammu 2684 Use of chuha phool for gastritis About 200-300 g of chuha phool (Pogoda alba) bark is crushed and boiled in about 200-300 ml water. After cooling, it is strained and the filtrate is taken only in empty stomach, preferably in the morning. Taking this preparation for 2-3 times is sufficient to cure gastritis in human being. Keywords: chuha-phool, bark, gastritis Shri Baburam Adhikari Medziphema, Dimapur (Nagaland) 2686 Use of aak pada for sprain and dislocation Aak pada (Calotropis gigantean) is a shrub, which is available in plenty. The plant has milky juice. This milky juice used for massaging to relieve pain in sprains and dislocations. The juice is applied over the affected area, massaged and bandaged. Some times the leaves are also heated and placed over the affected area after the application of the juice. In Assam, the juice is used to subside any flammatory condition of the skin. Keywords: Aak pada, sprains, dislocation, massage Shri Baburam Adhikari Medziphema, Dimapur (Nagaland) 2679 Treating whooping cough by using tulsi (Ocimum sp) and black pepper (Piper nigerum) Whooping cough is a very common disease in human being. For treatment of this disease, tulsi leaves and black pepper are ground properly and then this content is added to tea. Its intake can provide relief to the patients. This is an age-old practice and is being used in village Mashal in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh. Keywords: tulsi, black pepper, whooping cough Shri Rajeev Kumar Room no. 32D, NBH II Hostel, Himacal Pradesh University, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2668 Treatment of tuberculosis Two bottles of 1 litre size are taken. Root tips of desi babool (Acacia arabica) and neem (Azadirachta indica) are kept in separate bottles. These bottles are buried separately in the soil for a fortnight till it is filled with the root secretion. In third bottle a mixture is prepared by taking equal quantity of both the secretions(i.e. babool and neem). One drop of this ultimate solution is given daily to T.B. patient till the person gets relief. People of Naya Talab and Hatai village are using this practice since generations. Keywords: T.B., desi babool, neem, root secretion Shri Manji Nanoma S/o Shri Harji Nanoma, Naya Talab, Hatai, Dungarpur (Rajasthan)  2674 Use of nilkhanthi leaves and black pepper (Piper nigrum) for treatment of measles Measles problem is very common in children. For its treatment, brown leaves of nilkhanthi are properly ground and mixed with equal amount of black pepper (Piper nigrum). The content is given orally to patients to get relief from measles.