 Institutional Development - Institutions would be funded through a selection mechanism. Selection criteria will be developed during project preparation -- these will reflect institutions' willingness to reform, and their potential and vision for development. This component would support (a) restructuring and modernization of undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in various specializations; (b) promotion of academic excellence in critical/emerging areas at postgraduate and doctoral levels; (c) increasing scope and effectiveness of networking with educational institutions and research organizations within India and abroad; and (d) enhancing reach and effectiveness of agricultural education to agribusiness, farmers and rural women. Efforts would also be made to increase public-private partnership in agricultural education through the increased role of the private sector in curriculum design, faculty and students development, research and development, institution’s governance, and providing a window for direct project support for other specific initiatives. 2.7. Programmes and Activities 2.7.1. Systemic Reforms 2.7.1.1. Reforms in Governance of AUs and increasing System’s internal efficiency 2.7.1.1.1. Organizational reforms: In order to achieve uniformity in structure and functioning of the universities for enhanced efficiency and inter-institutional acceptability, it is essential that all SAUs adopt the Model Act for Agricultural Universities in India (2009) developed by the ICAR in consultation with all Vice Chancellors of the AUs. Adherence to the provisions of the Act related to uniform tenure and retirement age of Vice Chancellors; selection and tenure of university officers; constitution, powers and functions of the statutory bodies; and integration of education, research and extension, deserve consideration. 2.7.1.1.2. e- Governance in AUs: Presently, most AUs are functioning in traditional ways that require manpower, time, space and have inefficiencies. To make it efficient and vibrant, e-governance will be introduced by providing necessary hardware and softwareand training for operationalization. This will be achieved 14 utilizing internal experience and out-sourcing. Effort will be to make the office work paper less. 2.7.1.1.3. Financial Management System: Financial management is crucial to an institution and its efficiency will be enhanced through putting in place the FMS software with necessary capacity development. 2.7.1.1.4. Project Implementation and Monitoring Unit: For implementation and monitoring the activities of the project, a Project Implementation and Monitoring Unit will be created at the Education Division, ICAR with deployment of core manpower and contractual resource persons and support staff. 2.7.1.2.