 However, growing evidence has postulated the negative effects of these intensive and yield-maximizing production practices on soil degradation, groundwater depletion and productivity stagnation (Bhatt et al., 2021). This has prompted proposals for alternative crop­ ping systems especially diverse maize-based cropping systems and conservation agriculture, which has potential for resource conservation (Dutta et al., 2023; Parihar et al., 2016). Conservation agriculture (CA) has three key resource conservation practices of minimum soil distur­ bance, permanent soil cover, and crop diversification. The combined effect of these practices promises higher productivity, profitability, and environmental benefits in medium to long-run-in different geographies and cropping systems (Kumara et al., 2020; Jat et al., 2020a). In the Northwestern IGP, for instance, transitioning to a conservation agri­ culture system with maize as the focal crop, complemented by the in­ clusion of mungbean, i.e., the maize-wheat-mungbean rotation in lieu of the traditional rice-wheat rotation, not only improves the profitability but also mitigates global warming potential (Jat et al., 2020). Over the past decades, several studies have documented both me­ dium- and long-term yield and economic benefits of maize-based diversified systems under CA (Kumara et al., 2020; Parihar et al., 2016; Parihar et al., 2018a; Parihar et al., 2018b; Parihar et al., 2018c). With superior crop health, early canopy development, and sustenance of partial green canopy till maturity (Nayak et al., 2022), the CA practices are expected to be resilient to climatic fluctuations and pest pressures (Umar, 2021). Thus, across years CA practices not only ensure height­ ened productivity but also serve as a strategic buffer against potential production risks. There are however many studies conducted in farmer fields that provided mixed evidence of the effectiveness of CA practices (e.g., Giller et al., 2009, 2015). The extent of productivity gain in CA is highly variable, which depends on climate, soil, and how the three practices of CA are implemented (Pittelkow et al., 2015). Even though long-term experiments can identify the most profitable and productive cropping systems, conventional statistical analyses often fall short of offering guidance on whether it could be advantageous for farmers to allocate their land to multiple different cropping systems to optimize returns and minimize risk. Leveraging the principles of modern portfolio theory to analyze the long-term experiments holds promise in elucidating the nuanced interplay between production threats and returns across varying climate years. The existence of long-term exper­ iments on multiple cropping systems presents a unique opportunity to delve into these temporal risk-return trade-offs, ultimately yielding robust recommendations for maximizing return with various level of production risks.