 If India has to recapture its lost glory of spices, there should be considerable sincere efforts to achieve a quantum jump Indian Farming 74 (03): 74-79; March 2024 Eco-friendly management of pests and diseases in small cardamom Sudhakar Soundarajan'*, Preethu K Paul', Ashiba A', R Marimuthu', S N Sushil’, G Sivakumar’, T Venkatesan”, M Nagesh?, V Venkatasubramanian? and B T Rayudu* TICAR-Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Idukki, Kerala 685 619 ?/CAR-National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560 024 3{CAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560 024 Small cardamom, known as ‘green gold’, symbolizes India’s prominence in the global spice market, originating from the Western Ghats Forest in southern India. Over time, environmental changes in this region have led to indiscriminate use of synthetic chemical pesticides by farmers, resulting in environmental degradation and high pesticide residue levels in produce. As focus shifts towards organic small cardamom production, the search for safer pest and disease management measures becomes crucial. ICAR-National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources (NBAIR), Bengaluru, has developed various bio-agents effective for eco-friendly management of major cardamom pests and diseases. In the last five years, ICAR-KVK, Idukki, has extensively disseminated these technologies among small cardamom farmers through various activities, leading to increased adoption of eco- friendly practices, reduced pesticide usage, improved crop health, and sustainable production. With a growing demand for organic spices, ICAR-NBAIR technologies have played a pivotal role in Idukki district, enabling the production and export of safer small cardamom and its value-added products to domestic and international markets. Keywords: Bio-agents, Diseases, ICAR-NBAIR, ICAR-KVK, Insect pests, Small cardamom MALL cardamom, one of the most valued spice crops, popularly known as green gold, is a native of the evergreen rainforests of Western Ghats. Cardamom hills comprised the mountain range of southern India and southern Western Ghats are the hotspot area for cardamom cultivation. Out of three cardamom producing states (Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka), Kerala accounts for 88% of total production in India. Cardamom hill reserves within the cardamom hills of Idukki district, Kerala, comprises about 7488.40 ha of land and accounts for about 70% of the cardamom production of India. The perennial and succulent nature of the crop provides agreeable conditions for the pathogens to proliferate and perpetuate throughout the year. Also, the humid environment coupled with the partial shade under which the crop is grown creates a very suitable condition for the multiplication of the plant pathogens. This situation is challenging for the profitable cultivation of cardamom in Cardamom hill reserves of Kerala.