 • Weather forecasting: With the change in climatic condition and increasing pollution it’s difficult for farmers to determine the right time for sowing seed, with help of Artificial Intelligence farmers can analyse weather conditions by using weather forecasting which helps them to plan the type of crop to be grown and when should seeds to be sown. • Soil and crop health monitoring system: AI-based applications can identify the nutrient deficiencies in soil including plant pests and diseases by which farmers can also get an idea to use fertilizer which helps to improve harvest quality by using image recognition-based technology. Such type of app helps farmers to monitor soil and crop’s health conditions and produce healthy crops with a higher level of productivity. Blockchain technology: It is refered as a decentralized, distributed ledger that records the origins of a digital asset. The Blockchain is defined as a chain of Blocks that comprises information. Every block registers all the current transactions, and after completion stores into the Blockchain as a permanent database. Each time a block gets completed and a new block is created. The Blockchain technology offers following important applications in agriculture. • Efficient food supply chains: The blockchain technology can track the provenance of food and thus helps create trustworthy food supply chains and build trust between producers and consumers. As a trusted way of storing data, it facilitates the use of data-driven technologies to make farming smarter. In addition, jointly used with smart contracts, it allows timely payments between stakeholders that can be triggered by data changes appearing in the blockchain. • Transparent transactions: The blockchain technology allows peer-to-peer transactions to take place transparently and without the need for an intermediary like a bank (such as for cryptocurrencies) or a middleman in the agriculture sector. By eliminating the need for a central authority, the technology changes the way that trust is granted – instead of trusting an authority, trust is placed in cryptography and peer-to-peer architecture. It thus helps restore the trust between producers and consumers, which can reduce the transaction costs in the agri-food market. • Crop Insurance: Blockchain can improve crop insurance scheme execution in two dimensions. First, payments can be made timely and automated based on weather data that triggers the payout as defined in a smart contract. Second, weather information and other data sources, such as plant growth information or data collected by farm machinery, can be automatically integrated via a Indian Farming 41 June 2023 smart oracle improving basic risk reduction and making the index determination and payout process more efficient.