 The oil is also Agriculprescribed as internal dose, as it checks ecto- parasites in alimentary canal. Keywords: deodar oil, insect- pest repellent, massage, scabies, ecto-parasites Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2278 Different indigenous method of animal rearing in arid Rajasthan Various traditional methods of rearing livestock are in vogue in the Rajathan desert since ages. These methods or techniques have been evolved by the traditionally skilled livestock rearing communities. These have been practised and passed on from generation to generation for the benefit of the people. Livestock rearing, being predominant occupation of the arid people, contributes to the economy of the region, by providing milch cattle, drought cattle, milk, ghee, wool, mutton, bones etc. To preserve and strengthen the livestock economy, people have developed drought adjustment mechanisms, migratory system of livestock rearing, breeding strategies and various other practices of animal husbandry in the region. Widely practised methods or techniques of animal husbandry based on the experiences of generations and expertise of the stock breeders are indicated below: 1. Livestock migration and pastoralism: this is a drought Dr L. P. Bharara Retired Principal Scientist of CAZRI, Jodhpur (Rajasthan)  adjustment stragey 2. Traditionally skilled livestock breeders: people of specific castes rear specific animals. 3. Symbiotic relationship between the setteled, non-pastoralist and nomadic pastoralists. 4. Herding a mixture of animal types: This is a risk reduction strategy of animal product or produce. 5. Nada bandhna: It is a traditional practice of controlled breeding by tying a knot on the penis of male sheep to avoid breeding during migration and acute summer and winter periods. 6. Amar bakra: This is a religious practice of maintaining he-goat for breeding but avoiding its sale and slaughter. 7. Khoda system: It is a religious practice of maintaining a village bull on a cooperative basis for cattle breeding in the village. 8. Foster-parental care: This is a system or practice concerning the survival of livestock during scarcity or famine periods. Goats often act as "foster mother" to lambs and cow-calves(newly born). 9. Toba system of water harvesting: This is used as water utilization system by the pastoralists. 10. Gols' system of grazing, which is still prevalent among pastoral communities. 11. Sansis and sattia nomads: Traditionally skilled artisans are practicing castration of male calves. 12. Rituals and beliefs towards animal life, traditional attitudes, faith in god or goddess, evil eye and ghosts spirits-pertaining to livestock diseases and mortality. 13.