 Geographical distribution of solar farms and their corresponding estimated installed capacities. H. Supe et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e23125 9 4.3. Water resource availability When compared with other primary power generation sources such as thermal and nuclear, solar photovoltaic (PV) power gen­ eration is significantly more water-efficient. However, the challenge lies in the fact that these solar power plants are often situated in water-stressed areas. The majority of the water requirements for these plants (approximately 60 %) are fulfilled by groundwater accessed via borewells, while the remaining demand is met through surface water sources, including rivers, canals, and lakes [28]. Developers generally prefer to utilize groundwater as it is freely available, resorting to surface water only when necessary, which typically involves reliance on local contractors. In addition to the quantity of water, the quality of water required also greatly in­ fluences the actual water usage. For instance, reverse osmosis (RO) treated water is recommended for cleaning solar panels. However, Fig. 6. (a–c). LULC change caused by Solar power plant installation for (a) 2005, (b)1995 and (c)1985 and the states mentioned here are top 8 states with highest solar power installed capacity. Fig. 7. State-wise groundwater level distribution over solar farms. H. Supe et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e23125 10 the RO process itself results in a significant amount of water wastage. Thus, both the quantity and quality of water are essential considerations in the operation of solar power plants [28]. Access to reliable water resources is critical to the operation of solar power plants. Fig. S2 shows groundwater levels in India, which considerably vary throughout the country because of differences in land type. Projection of the solar farm locations onto the groundwater map revealed that areas with the highest installed capacity are located in regions with low groundwater depths, exacerbating water strain in the area (Fig. 7). Regions experiencing severe ground water scarcity include Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, and Andhra Pradesh. Fig. S3 shows the surface water bodies located throughout India, which significantly governs the water resources availability for human activities. Fig. 8, shows the numbers and percentages of power plants located within a 5-km radius of these surface water bodies. The regions Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, and Rajasthan have minimum presence of power plants. In particular, Madhya Pradesh had no power plant located within 5 km of surface water bodies, consistent with our observations regarding groundwater content (Fig. 7). This suggests that solar farms situated in the state of Madhya Pradesh are likely to place a significant demand on regional water resources. Overall, the installation of large solar power plants is exerting increasing pressure on water management conditions throughout the country. 4.4.