 The critical strength of CRISPR breeding is that it allows for faster and more targeted development of crop varieties. Crops modified by gene editing include alfalfa in feed crops; cotton in fibre crops; apple, banana, barley, basil, chickpea, wheat etc. in food crops; jatropha, Millet, sugar cane etc. in industrial crops; canola, flax, sunflower, etc. in oil crops; Lily, Lotus, petunia, rose, etc. in ornamental crops. To meet increasing food demand, breeders and scientists aim to improve the yield and quality of major food crops. CRISPR has introduced important agricultural traits, including heat, cold and herbicide tolerance; viral, bacterial 93 Cutting-edge Research and fungal resistance; and increased grain size and weight into many economically important crops, such as rice, wheat, maize, tomato, potato, tobacco, cotton, soybean and brassicas. With precise genome engineering and transgene-free applications, CRISPR would resolve the significant challenges of crop improvement. Key takeaways De novo domestication using CRISPR is important in breeding. Gene editing is a crucial facilitator to develop varieties with desired agronomical traits. 94 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series CHALLENGES FACED IN THE UTILIZATION OF CONTEMPORARY GENE BANKS Paul Gepts Gene banks around the world are real facilitators in the conservation and improvement of valuable germplasm resources. Plant germplasm in gene banks is stored by freezing their seeds (e.g., in a seedbank), maintaining their parts in test tubes (in vitro), or growing individuals in live collections (clonal repositories). The challenge to enhancing and accelerating utilization of plant genetic resources in crop improvement programmes can be met through gene banks. But there are many bottlenecks in utilization of these very gene banks. Some are as follows. Black box: We do not know what is in the gene bank. And specific action points for enhanced use of plant genetic resources from gene banks include high-throughput phenotypic and genotypic characterization. Thus, we need to ensure that gene banks do not remain black boxes. Lost in the woods: We receive germplasm but if that germplasm lacks basic adaptations and does not adapt well in different climates then we cannot evaluate it and it would have little purpose. For example, 280 accessions of lima bean (Phaseolus lunatus) were collected from the USDA gene bank for Prof. Paul Gepts is a Distinguished Professor at the University of California, Davis. His areas of expertise include research and teaching on the topics of crop evolution and crop agrobiodiversity to conserve germplasm and furthering their application in breeding programmes. 95 Cutting-edge Research the species (Western Regional Plant Introduction Station, Pullman, WA), the lima bean breeding program at UC Davis and the Phaseolus World Collection at CIAT (Cali, Colombia). Only 10 per cent flowered at UC Davis and only some set seeds, which could be used in subsequent evaluations.