 The blend of equal volume fraction of clayey soils and carbonaceous matter (horse dung) is used in construction of traditional aesthetic shelves within households of this region. The development of ﬂexural strength for such an immingle when saturated with water was found to improve with time. Composites of equal volume fraction of clayey soils and carbonaceous matter (animal dung) can therefore be considered good candidates for use as a medium to fertilize the soil. Fig. 16 Schematic of the geometry frustum shaped water ﬁlter. 946 Use of Clayey Salty Soils and its Composite Derivatives for Construction and Ceramics for Household Use Cruse used in this region for water storage have comparatively better water cooling characteristics that imported cruse from neighboring states. Salty soils of this region abundant in Mg and Ca compounds help in production of sustainable off-white cruse covered with amorphous off-white Mg and Ca oxides. Compressive strength of the cruse is a function of its shape. Another sintered product analyzed in this article is the local ceramic water ﬁlter named the G ﬁlter. The immingle of equal volume fraction of clayey soils and carbonaceous matter (sawdust) is used as raw materials. Local potter household processes and sinters this device at their premises. Flow through these devices can be modeled geometrically, electro-kinetically and also as a function of constituent raw materials. The water ﬁlters showcased good bacterial contaminant removal. Acknowledgement The authors deeply acknowledge the DST grant no. YSS/2014/00576 for supporting the research. See also: Design and Performance Analysis of Small-Scale Parabolic Trough Solar Collectors Using Sustainable Materials References Agrawal, D.P., 2007. The Indus Civilization: An Interdisciplinary Perspective. New Delhi, India: Aryan Books International. Brown, J.M., Proum, S., Sobsey, M.D., 2008. Escherichia coli in household drinking water and diarrheal disease risk: Evidence from Cambodia. Water Science and Technology 58 (4), 757–763. CGWB, 2008. Ground water scenario-barmer district Rajasthan. Ministry of Water Resource, Government of India, New Delhi, India, pp. 9–11 (2011). Chandra, K., 2005. Organic manures, regional director regional centre of organic farming no. 34, 5th Main Road Hebbal, Bangalore, 46. CPCB, 2012. Status of water quality in India. Central Pollution Control Board, New Delhi, Government of India, India. Dave, L., Jakhar, P., Gupta, S., et al., 2017. Application of novel ﬁbres of Crotalaria Burhia for rope, rooftop cover and mat production. Journal of Environmental Nanotechnology 6 (2), 36–39. Guo, M., 2017. Variability in pottery ﬁring technology: Choice or technical development? Chinese Archaeology 17 (1), 179–186. Gupta S., Kaurwar, A., Satankar, R., et al., 2016.