 In order to prevent the infestation, 'kunwarpatha' (Aloe vera)is used. A solution is made of one litre water and eight crushed leaves of Aloe. It is then sprayed on the crop which is infested. This is believed to be effective remedy for preventing rotting of fruits and does not have any side effects (Junagadh, Gujarat). Chudasama (1999) 94 Fig triggers growth Fig fruits are used as growth acelerators. The extract of fig fruits is taken in water and is left over a week. The solution is then sprayed on plants. Basavaraju found that spraying of this solution increases the growth of plant (Karnataka). Basavaraju and Santheshivara (1998b) 95 Enhancing growth of neem One palmful of khakhro (Butea monosperma) flowers is soaked in a bucketful of water for 3-4 hours. The flowers are then removed from the bucket and juice is squeezed. The solution is applied in the plants every week. This treatment enhances the growth of the tree.When the neem tree was treated this way, it gained a height of 10 feet in a year (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Sumara (2001) 96 Traditional apple plucking It is done by climbing an apple tree with putting a small basket around the neck of gunny bag cloth. This prevents damage to fruits. Plucked apples are transfered to big basket(kilta) which is also provided with a rough cloth cushion.In this way apples are carried to the store room for grading (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 180 HORTICULTURAL CROPS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 97 Plant protection by Grind 7 kg of Vitex negundo, Ipomea fistulosa and extract of common vegetation Pongamia pinnata each with 4 kg of Calatropis procera and boil in 20 litres of water for half an hour. Next day, filter the solution then dilute this solution with 100 litres of water and spray to control pest. Anonymous (2000e) 98 Indigenous harvesting of onions Rolling an empty drum of about 10 in onion field 10-15 days before harvesting facilitates stalk removal by physical breaking of leaves from the bulbs (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 99 Apricot drying on the trees Apricots are harvested and allowed to dry on tree itself. Due to very low relative humidity they dry well on the tree. The dried product is of excellent quality not obtained even after modern techniques of drying. These tree dried fruits cost more (Nalling, Nako, Pooh of Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 100 Storage of apples in underground pits The apples are stored in underground pits, prior to the onset of winter. Apples are packed into wooden boxes which are then placed in underground pits and the mouth of pits is covered with thatch and soil. This way apples can be stored up to summer time without any appreciable loss in quality. A pitcher or wooden box placed in a pit creates a cool store (Lahaul and Spiti, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 101 Storage of fruits and vegetables by sundrying Apricot, wild apricot, apple and local grapes are sundried on roof tops.