75 MTOE cumu- latively. However, PAT Cycle III projected only 1.06 MTOE savings, although it surpassed expectations with 1.745 MTOE by 2020 end. The diminishing returns indicate the need to expand the scheme by including more industries and identi- fying gaps in energy efﬁciency efforts. Also, including carbon accounting and MRV systems to record carbon emissions and setting carbon emission targets along with energy efﬁciency targets will help PAT become a full-ﬂedged cap and trade scheme, allowing better price discovery. Similarly, the ECBC policy has led to lower emissions and better environmental outcomes in the infrastructure sector. However, regular pol- icy revisions should be undertaken to take advantage of emerging technologies to promote sustainable outcomes. Collaboration with Indian material scientists can create cost-effective, high-quality materials suited for diverse geo- graphical zones, enhancing ECBC’s effectiveness. On the supply side, policies like RDSS have reduced trans- mission and distribution losses in India’s energy sector. How- ever, these policies require ongoing updates to harness emerging technological advancements. RDSS should align with global benchmarks and prioritise further loss preven- tion in future revisions. Efforts to increase renewables have faced challenges, with the 175 GW by 2022 target and the PM KUSUM scheme encountering participation issues due to a lack of collaboration amongst stakeholders. However, the synergistic nature between the RE capacity build-up and green hydrogen offers unique opportunities for India both in terms of energy security and the development of a robust energy export sector. Further focus on R&D and infrastruc- ture development for green hydrogen holds the key to increasing RE share in India’s energy mix. However, stake- holders need persuasion to establish and sustain RE infra- structure. Effective communication between central and state governments is crucial for such policy implementation. Another possible source of clean energy is nuclear energy, which currently makes up only 3% of India’s energy mix. While nuclear fuel is not a renewable energy source, it offers a fossil fuel-free source of energy needed to sustainably meet the growing energy demand of Indian households and Industrial sectors in the coming decades. Recently, the GOI has taken a keen interest in nuclear energy, seeing its poten- tial, and has announced an ambitious plan to increase India’s installed nuclear energy capacity from 7.48 GW to 22.28 GW by 2031. To achieve this three-fold increase in installed nuclear capacity, GOI has announced production-linked incentive (PLI) schemes for manufacturing small modular reactors (SMRs)27, which is a move in the right direction as 23 https://spectra.mhi.com/4-ways-of-storing-hydrogen-from- renewable-energy  Accessed on 04 August 2023. 24 https://www.umicore.com/en/newsroom/fuel-cells-battery-dif ference/  Accessed on 05 August 2023. 25 https://static.pib.gov.