 Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Vidhya Dutt, Laboratory Attendant, Department of Bio- Sciences, Himachal Pradesh University, Shirnla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 Shri Soormal, S/o Shri Detaji Badera. Damana (Umra Khapra), Jhadol (Rajasthan) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3238 Treatment of galghotu by use of decoction of bark of paba, samri and kegar 3239 Treatment of animal's tail with laci fish 3240 Treatment of animal's tail with mobil oil 500 g arna leaves (Clearidandrum), turmeric, garlic and salt (each 100 g). This lotion is rubbed on the swollen tongue. After some time swelling of tongue is reduced and the animal starts feeding. Keywords: galghotu, swelling on tongue, arna leaves, turmeric, garlic, salt People of village Bhurdia, Jhadol of Udaipur district in Rajasthan use this ITK for the treatment of galghotu. Green stem bark of paba, samri and kegar trees (each 250 g) is chopped and boiled in 1-2 litres of water. It is filtered and fed to the animal twice daily for 3 days. The remaining unfiltered material is applied as bandage over swelling. Animal is cured within 3 days. Keywords: galghotu, stem bark, paba, samri and kegar trees About 200 g laci fish is burnt properly and a paste is prepared by using it. This paste is applied on the animal's tail twice daily, for tis cure. This treatment is followed in village Maheshpur (Shivsingh) of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: animal tail, laci fish When animal suffers from cut in the tail, people of village Bichuria of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh apply mobil oil on the tail of the animal twice daily. The tail is cured within 2- 3 days. Keywords: cut, tail, mobil oil Shri Somaj, S/o Shri Pataji Vadera, Bhurdia, Khera (Chundawaton), and Shri Vardi Chand S/o Shri Kesa ji Orna, Pokhi, Atkalia, Kantharia, village Jhadol, dist. Udaipur (Rajasthan) Shri Komil Ram, S/o Shri Ram Prasad, village Maheshpur (Shivsingh) Bhairpura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Satya Prakash, S/o Shri Ajaypal Singh, village Bichuria, Balia, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) 3241 Treatment of animal's tail with beri grass Farmers of village Nitoie of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh are using this ITK for the treatment of animal's tail. A paste of 250 g beri grass is made, which is applied on the cut part of the Shri Malkhan Singh, S/o Shri Iswari Prasad, Nitoie, Bhamora, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3242 Treatment of animal's tail with mustard oil 3243 Treatment of animal's tail with milk of akauwa 3244 Treatment of tail cancer in animals with mustard oil 3245 Treatment of animal's tail with garlic and mustard oil animal's tail. The tail is cured within 2-3 days.