 Poultry In winters when temperature goes down below 15o C, various problems like reduction in weight gain and egg production, water intake, fertility and hatchability, enhanced mortality, etc. occurs. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 136 House should be designed in a way that maximum sun light enters the shed during daytime and protected from chilled winds, for this gunny bags should be hanged at cold air entry. Birds release a lot of moisture in their breath and droppings which adversely affects their health, if there is restricted ventilation it causes ammonia build up in the air which causes respiratory problems. So, they need plenty of fresh air circulating around the house. Prior to chick being placed in house, floor should be covered with saw dust, shredded newspapers, grain husk, etc. and install Bukharis or heaters or bulbs for maintaining temperature. Poultry uses food for two main purposes i.e., as an energy source to maintain body temperature and to carry on normal physiological activities and as building material for development of bones, flesh, feather, egg, etc. Therefore, adequate, balanced, and healthy feed should be provided. As low temperature causes more feed intake and higher oxygen demand, provide adlib feed to the birds for rapid weight gain and egg production. If water is cold enough, then it should be given to chicken after adding hot water to it, so that the water comes to normal temperature. Many of vaccines/ medicine/ anti stress vitamins are given to poultry through water. Ensure pest and rodent control in the poultry shed. Store feed in dry place so that it may not get in contact with moisture. Fish Fish, being a cold-blooded aquatic animal, needs special care during winters. As temperature of the surface water is colder than the bottom layers, the fish prefers to live in the bottom zone. Farmers shall ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 137 keep the water depth up to 6 feet, so that it gets enough space for hibernating in the warmer bottom zone. As day length and light intensity also decreases during winters, oxygen levels decline in ponds due to reduced photosynthetic activity especially in cloudy weather. Ponds either by adding fresh water or by using aerators, especially during early hours of the day. Feed intake of fish decreases with decrease in temperature as its digestive system becomes sluggish. Hence, it is essential to reduce the feeding rate by 50-75% as temperature. When water gets colder, the cold-blooded fishes’ metabolism will start to slow down. In case the temperature falls, it is advised to stop feeding. Excess feed remains unconsumed and accumulates at the pond bottom, which deteriorates the water quality. It is also advised to go for periodic raking of bottom soil (with the help of barbed wire) to prevent any suspected accumulation of toxic gases at the pond bottom,” said the experts.