 There are 20 districts in Arunachal Pradesh which can be classified into four agro-ecological zones namely, Alpine, Temperate, Sub-Tropical and Tropical zones. Some of the districts may fall in different zones have specific production systems and commodities. 2.3 Technological interventions for the specific zones: A. Alpine zone: Alpine zone consists of four districts namely Tawang, Kurung Kumey, Dibang Valley and Anjaw. This zone consists of approximately 25% geographical area of the state. High altitude livestock is the primary component of agricultural production in this agro-climatic zone. Yaks and sheep are reared in alpine pasture with nearly zero input systems and is the only livelihood and nutritional security of the highlanders. i. Complete Feed Block to combat winter feed crisis in high altitude livestock: This helps in recovering in loss of 25% body weight during winter. Under field condition yak farmers gains a net profit of Rs. 1730/- per growing yak and Rs. 3390/- per lactating yak in winter season (November to March). 22000 CFB has been distributed to farmers under TSP and appreciated by the farmers [Validated by ICAR-NRCY]. ii. Establishment and rejuvenation of highland pastures: Pasture biomass enhanced from 100.14 q/ha (2 cuts) to 519.90 q/ha (3 cuts) by establishing and rejuvenation of alpine pasture with suitable grasses. Traditional pasture can support 10 yak units per hectare for State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 39 three months whereas this technology supports 50 yak units. The B:C ratio is 5.12 and the net annual income for this intervention is Rs. 4,10,000/- [Validated by ICAR-NRCY]. iii. Value addition of livestock fibres: Presently the yak/sheep fibres are underutilised, value addition of which through blending with other natural fibres gives a B:C ratio of 6.1 and net annual income is Rs.4,00,320/-. Additionally, the products are eco-friendly, new venture and has better market potential [Validated by ICAR-NRCY]. B. Temperate Zone: Temperate zone consists of four districts namely West Kameng, East Kameng, Upper Subansari and Upper Siang. Livestock, horticulture, crop and cold water fisheries are primary component of agricultural production. i. Cultivation of off-season vegetables: Adoption of protected cultivation using low cost plastic tunnels and rain shelter helped to grow vegetables successfully year around with higher productivity. The B:C ratio ranged from 2.84 to 5.19 was recorded in different combination of broccoli, spinach, coriander, cabbage, radish, tomato, pea, bitter gourd, bottle gourd, sponge gourd, capsicum, cucumber, carrot, cauliflower, beetroot and fenugreek. [Validated by ICAR-RC NEH, Sikkim]. Low cost rain water harvesting structure (Jalkund with storing capacity 30,000 L using HDPE pond line of 5 x 4 x 1.