2% and West Bengal at 13.2%. This information underscores the need for targeted interventions to promote gender equality in ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 149 the agricultural sector. The evaluation of livestock schemes revealed that there is a need to address the gender biasness in veterinary education, research and service delivery systems to upgrade the efficacy of women-oriented livestock development programmes. Subsidies-specific programmes to integrate farm women dairy entrepreneurs, cooperatives, etc. are required to be included in the different schemes to realize the goal of women empowerment in the sector. While evaluating the role of organised dairy sector on livelihood of women, major milk marketing channels were identified for the small holder women dairy farmers. Gender-sensitive agri-nutrition: In the pursuit of entrepreneurship development, a significant milestone was achieved by establishing five successful small-scale poultry production units in the Nimapara block of Puri District, Odisha. In the goatery sector, strategic linkages were forged with three Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs), Taradevi Farmer’s Producer Company Limited in Jajpur, Maheera Farmer’s Producer Company Limited in Khordha, and Manikstu Agro Private Limited in Kalahandi. These partnerships were established with the aim of improving the livelihoods of farm women. Furthermore, a Women Farmer Interest Group known as “Omm Sai” was established, and a Common Facility Centre (CFC) equipped with processing equipment was set up in Kanamana village, Astaranga. In another SOCIAL SCIENCE Value added fish products prepared by SHGs entrepreneurial endeavour, a Self-Help Group (SHG) formed by women in Sorana village, located in the Chilika block of Khordha district, launched ‘ChilkaFoodline’ and established a linkage with the Falcon Chilka Group for marketing their products. A Gender-Sensitive Agri-Nutri Farming System Model (G-SAN Model): This model was developed by identifying and addressing existing gender disparities through the use of specific technologies. These technologies include high-protein paddy, nutrient-rich vegetables, and improved feeding practices. The G-SAN Model has demonstrated a significant positive impact on various socio-technical and economic aspects, particularly in the realm of women’s empowerment. To enhance the efficiency of agricultural operations, Women Self-Help Group (SHG)-based Custom Hiring Centers (CHC) and Farmers’ Interest Groups (Ananya Mahila Bikas Samiti) were established. Development of nutrismart villages through participation of rural women has been conceptualised. This project entails the implementation of technological solutions to bridge nutritional gaps in 10 villages, benefiting 300 farming families across four districts in Odisha (Puri, Khorda, Cuttack, and Jagatsingpur). The primary goal is to raise awareness about nutrition and combat malnutrition by promoting homestead agriculture and the establishment of nutri- gardens.