 Compactness of the soil will not allow the moisture to easily evaporate from the soil. Keywords: soil moisture, evaporation, summer cucurbit, soil clod Seeds of bitter gourd are tied in a cotton cloth (intensively woven cloth) and are kept in compost pit up to depth of 4-5 cm. Seeds germinate due to heat of compost in 5-6 days. By this practice 95% germination is achieved and 4-5 days are saved in the field. After taking out the seeds from compost pit, these are placed in shade and moist condition till sowing time in Shri Deva ji, S/o Shri Kodar Ji Keer, village Rama, Aaspur, dist. Dungarpur (Rajasthan) Shri Nanu Ram, S/o Shri Chaguji Raj Bhoie, Singhara wala, Palada Monu (Ganadia Bandh), Aantri, dist. Dungarpur (Rajasthan) 314037 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content HORTICULTURAL CROPS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3004 Seed treatment of bhindi (ladys' finger) 3005 Use of meat to attract red ants for controlling fruit-sucking moth and trunk-borers in mandarin the field. It is an age-old practice being used in villages of Sonapur, Sewta and Hamirpur of district Azamgarh of Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: dormancy, bitter gourd, heat, compost pit This ITK is used by the villagers of Daijar in district Jodhpur of Rajasthan for better germination and insect-pest control in bhindi. These are methods for seed treatment. 1. Salt-based seed treatment: In 1 litre water, 100 g salt is mixed and it is slightly heated. About 700 g bhindi seeds are dipped in it for 14-15 hr. After this the seeds are washed with fresh water and kept in wet cloth, and then sown. These seeds germinate 5 days earlier in comparison with untreated ones. 2. Cow urine based treatment: After salt and fresh water treatment, 250 ml cow-urine is mixed in it. Seeds are ready for sowing. Keywords: bhindi, seed treatment, salt, cow-urine, neem Farmers of Jorhat tie (with rope) a piece of meat (15-20 g) on branches of mandarin trees to attract red ants toward them. Red ants make their nests on the branches of trees. These are carnivorous in nature. At night fruit-sucking moth and fly attack the fruit, and the red ants become alert to catch these insects for feeding. Red ants kill the larvae of mandarin trunk- borer very easily. This is an age-old practice that is helpful in controlling 20-25% moth attack. Keywords: red ant, meat, mandarin, fruit-sucking moth, trunk-borer Shri Shyam ji, S/o Shri Gopal ji Mali, Daijar, Mandur, dist. Jodhpur (Rajasthan) Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 119 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No.