 Perennial odourous herb, 5–10 feet high found wild in Baltistan, especially in Astore beyond the Kamri and Burzil passes. The flowers are small yellow. 139 Ficus benghalensis Banyan H- Bargad B-Bar G-Vad M-Vada Tel-Marri T-Alam Kan-Ala Mal-Ala The bark contains 11% tannin. The banyan tree is one of the recorded hosts of the Indian lac insect. The milky juice is externally applied for pains and bruises and as an anodyne in rheumatism and lumbago. It is also used as remedy for toothache. The leaves are heated and applied as poultic astringent and are used indysentery, diarrhoea and diabetes. An infusion of young bud is useful in diarrhoea and dysentery. The seeds are considered cooling and tonic. A very large tree, with spreading branches attaining at times a height of 100 feet, aerial roots many, some developing into accessory trunk. The tree occurs through out the forest tracts of India both in sub-Himalayan region and in the deciduous forest of Deccan and South India. 140 Ficus carica Common fig H- Angir B- Angir G- Angir M- Angir Tel-Anjuru T-Tenatti Kan-Angura Mal- Simayatti The principal acids in fresh fig are citric and acetic. The fruits, fresh or dried are valued for its laxative properties. It is diuretic, demulcent, emollient and nutritive. Figs are considered useful in the prevention of nutritional anaemia. A small or moderate sized deciduous tree, 15–30 feet high. The fig plant is considered to be a native of Carica in Asia minor and is grown in nearly all tropical and sub tropical country. In India, its commercial production is limited to a few centers near Pune (Maharashtra), Bellary (Karnataka) and Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 347 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 141 Ficus glomerata - H- Gular B-Dumur M-Umbar G-Umar Tel-Atti T-Athi Kan-Athi Mal-Athi O-Dimri The latex of tree contains 4– 7.4% caoutchouc. The coagulum of the latex may be used in the manufacture of ground sheet and waterproof bonded paper. The plant is one of the recorded hosts of Indian lac insect.The bark contains 14% tannin. It is astringent and decoction of it is used as wash for wounds. The root is useful in dysentery. The fruit is astringent and stomachic and carminative. The milky juice is administered in piles and diarrhoea. A moderate size to a large spread tree, with ovate, lanceolate or elliptic, dark-green leaves. It is found through out the greater part of India in moist locality, e.g. along banks of streams and sites of ravines. It is found also on rocky slopes, sometimes almost gregariously. It is often cultivated for edible fruits. 142 Ficus hispida - H- Daduri B-Dumoor M–Bokria G- Dhedavmaro Tel- Bodamamidi T-Peyatti Kan- Adauiatti Mal-Peyatti Immature fruits are used in making curries, they are however likely to cause giddiness.