 On basis of leaf colour analysis riceNxpert makes real time N recommendation in terms of urea for top dressing in different rice ecologies. Crop Protection Multi-trait Trichoderma based formulation for soil-borne diseases of pulse crops: Several species of Trichoderma were identified from pulses rhizosphere and characterized for their antagonistic potential against soil-borne and root rots diseases and plant growth (germination percentage, plant height, shoot and root length) promoting ability in major pulse crops. Among the Trichoderma isolates tested under in-vitro and green house condition at ICAR-Indian Institute of Pulses Research, Kanpur, one isolate, IIPRTh-31 (Trichoderma asperellum) was identified for maximum inhibition of mycelial growth (>80%) of wilt pathogens, promoted root length, shoot length, and tolerated temperature up to 50°C. Three formulations were developed using different carrier materials (Talc, parafin oil, glycerol) and tested for their shelf-life up to 6 months at room on the affected plant parts along with black coloured irregularly circular sclerotia resembled those of white mold fungus, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum. Pathogenicity of the fungus was proved using detached leaf/twig inoculation. Morphological characters and the sequences of internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region (MK828202) of the fungus confirmed the causal agent of the disease to be Sclerotinia sclerotiorum. This is the first report of Sclerotinia sclerotiorum on Rhynchosia bracteata not only in India but in the world also. Preparation of DALHANDERMA temperature. Maximum inoculums viability (4.2 × 108/ cfu/g) was observed in talc-based formulation DALHANDERMA. This talc-based formulation DALHANDERMA, a Trichoderma asperellum strain of IIPRTh-31 (MK968811), will be very useful for the management of soil-borne diseases and promoting growth of pulse crops such as chickpea, pigeon pea and lentil through seed treatment and soil application. Sclerotinia sclerotiorum associated with Rhynchosia bracteata of wild derivatives of pigeonpea from India–First Report: Out of total 79 accessions of wild relatives of pigeonpea (Cajanus cajan), one accession of Rhynchosia bracteata was found to be affected by leaf and stem blight symptoms. Presence of water-soaked lesions on leaves and stem which later turn chalky in appearance, cottony white mycelium Leaf and stem blight symptoms Detection and diagnosis of inner boll rot of cotton: During 2019–20, higher incidences of inner cotton boll rot were reported from farmers’ fields from major cotton growing regions of Maharashtra. This unusual emerging problem in cotton has been associated with reduced boll development, quality of fibres and total yield. On detail investigation, bacterial species belonging to members of Enterobacteriaceae family (facultative anaerobe) were predominately isolated from rot affected green cotton bolls.