 The fungus was highly virulent against T. vaporariorum with LC50 values of 1.3×106 and 1.4×105 spores per mL against nymphs and adults, respectively. RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 154 SUCCESS STORY Women empowerment through household food and nutritional security: A case study from high hills of Uttarakhand Mrs Pooja Karki who hails from a tiny village of Baitholi in high hills of Berinaag block, Pithoragarh district in Uttarakhand has now become the role model for other farmers of the area. She improved the financial and nutritional situation of her family by adopting improved practices of vegetable cultivation, mushroom cultivation, vermicomposting, honey bee rearing and vegetable seedling production under protected conditions. Now after getting trainings, Mrs Karki follows the proper scientific guidelines of growing vegetables. In the very first season she was able to obtain a good yield of vegetables more than sufficient for home consumption. She also sold vegetables in nearby local markets. Then gradually other nutrition-sensitive agricultural interventions were also introduced such as—vermicomposting, fruit plantation, honey bee rearing and mushroom cultivation. In the initial phase, women of the area were hesitant to grow and consume mushrooms due to their traditional thinking. Mrs Pooja Karki was one of the first women to grow mushroom at her home. She not only included it in her diet but also was able to produce enough for selling at local market. She encouraged other women of the area for the cultivation of mushroom and now most of the women of the area have adopted it. She has also started bee-keeping which will not only provide honey for nutritional security but will help in pollination to enhance vegetable productivity. Earlier farmers of the area used to purchase seedlings of inferior quality from local markets which has a very high mortality rate. She has learnt nursery preparation of vegetable crops and is instrumental in providing seedlings of improved varieties of vegetables to fellow farmers. She has installed HDPE vermicomposting bed in her backyard Like other farm families in the hill region of Uttarakhand, Mrs Pooja Karki was earlier practicing traditional subsistence farming and produced food enough to sustain the family for three to four months in a year and was dependent on the market for food for rest of the period of the year. The financial conditions of the family forced her husband to migrate from the village in search of livelihood, leaving behind the wife Pooja, two children and old parents. Now it was her responsibility to manage the family. She was engaged in agricultural activities such as producing wheat, rice, finger millet, soybean, colocasia along with livestock management for their livelihood like most of the other women in the village.