 228 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Redgram (Pigeonpea) seed is treated with Carbendazim (2gm) or Thiram (3gm) or Tricoderma virdie 5 - 7 g / k g of seed to avoid Fusarium wilt and Rhizobium and PSB culture 7-10 g/kg seed to improve the nutrient satus. yy Treating seeds with Azospirillum (N fixing bacterium) and Aspergillus (P solubilizing fungs) @ 25g/kg seed is beneficial. Seeds can also be treated with Carbendazim (2gm) to avoid soil borne fungus, treat the seeds first with seed dressing chemicals and then with bio-fertilizers at the time of sowing. MANGO yy Mango hoppers; three sprays of carbaryl 50 % SP (@ 3 g/litre) or acephate 75 %SP (@1 g /litre) or imidachloprid 17.8 SL (@0.3 ml / litre) of water at pre-flowering, flowering and marble stage of the crop Mango fruit fly; cue lure trap (dichlorovas+methyleugenol each 1 ml) @ 5 traps per acreMango leafwebber; spraydichlorovas@ 1.5 ml per liter of waterwater BANANA yy For banana plants planted in the November and December 2019, start playing Banana Special at 5 g/l with two juice and 1 shampo sachet at monthly interval upto September 2020. COCONUT yy Rhinoceros beetle: Collect and destroy the various stages of the beetle from the manure pits (breeding ground of the pest) whenever manure is lifted from the pits. yy Incorporate the entomopathogen i.e, fungus (Metarrhizium anisopliae) in manure pits to check the perpetuation of the pest. yy Examine the crowns of tree at every harvest and hook out and kill the adults. yy Apply mixture of either phorate 10 G + sand (1:2) @150 g per palm or phorate 10 G + sand (1:2) @150 g per palm in the base of the 3 inner most leaves in the crown 229 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Place phorate 10 G 5 g in perforated sachets in two inner most leaf axils for 2 times at 6 months intervals. yy Set up rhinolure pheromone trap @ 1/ 2 ha to trap and kill the beetles. yy Red palm weevil yy Remove and burn all wilting or damaged palms in coconut gardens to prevent further perpetuation of the pest. yy Avoid injuries on stems of palms as the wounds may serve as oviposition sites for the weevil. yy Fill the crown and the axils of top most three leaves with a mixture of fine sand and phorate 10 G (2:1) once in three months to prevent the attack of rhinoceros beetle damage in which the red palm weevil lays eggs. yy Install pheromone trap @ 2 ha yy Whitefly: Application of 1% starch solution on leaflets yy Installation of yellow sticky traps on the palm trunk yy Spray of Neem oil 0.5%. yy Bud rot: Remove all the affected tissue of the crown region and drenching the crown with Copper oxychloride 3g/lit. yy Apply Bordeaux paste and protect it from rain till normal shoot emerges. yy Spray 3g/lit. Copper oxy chloride or 1 % Bordeaux mixture on the crown of the neighbouring palms as a prophylactic measure before the onset of monsoon.