 In spite of its high economic value there are no improved cultivars or varieties developed in Mahua, however, some selections based on physico-chemical characters, period of fruit maturity and high seed oil content have been identified. Due to direct harvesting of economically important parts of this tree from natural habitat and deforestation, genetic diversity of Mahua is facing threat of extinction and requires immediate conservation efforts. Limited success achieved in cryopreservation of embryonic axes of this highly recalcitrant tropical tree species necessitates further refinement of protocol and also implementation of complimentary conservation strategy by maintaining field genebank collections of promising genotypes. Urgent attention is also required for popularization and needful value addition to the commercial products of Mahua to attract present day market demand. M adhuca longifolia (Koenig) Macbr. (syn. M. indica Hamilton ex Gmet.) (syn. M. latifolia Macb.; Bassia latifolia Roxb.), family Sapotaceae, is an important tree having vital socio-economic value for tribal populations of several Central Indian States. Madhuca probably originated in Indo-China region and spread up to Australia. Its vernacular names are region specific; however, most commonly used name is Mahua. In India it is found largely in semi-deciduous dry forests of Western, Central and Southern India mainly in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. It is a multipurpose tree providing food, fuel, timber, green manure, oil, oil cake, liquor and raw materials for several products. It is a fast-growing tree reaching approximately 20 m in height and possesses evergreen or semi-evergreen foliage with wide and round canopy. The succulent cream- coloured corollas fallen on the ground during March and April are collected and dried. These are a rich source of sugars and contain appreciable amounts of vitamins and calcium. Production of liquor from Mahua flower is a traditional practice for centuries. Seed oil is locally used for the care of skin, for manufacturing of soap and detergents and also as a vegetable butter. The seed cakes obtained after extraction of oil is used as a very good fertilizer. It is one of the most valued trees among tribal communities of central India and its every part is used for various purposes. Trees of Mahua are retained and preserved in the farmer’s field and marginal lands due to its socio-economical importance. Therefore, large numbers of trees exist in the villages, road sides as social forestry tree and on Panchayat lands besides large populations in the tropical forests. There are no systematic studies undertaken on genetic resource management of this species in India.