 YSPUHF Naini, Solan (Himachal Pradesh) 2745 Use of local vegetation for dying cotton clothes People of the Naya Talab (Hathai) village in Dungarpur district of Rajasthan are using natural colours for dyeing of cotton Shri Manji Nanoma S/o Shri Harji Nanoma, Naya Talab, Hathai Dungarpur (Rajasthan)  clothes since last 30 years. Indroka tree is commonly found in the area. Its leaves (amount depends on size of the cloth) are taken and boiled in water by adding some quantity of common salt. The clothes are dipped in it and are kept for 30 minutes. The coloured clothes thus produced are dried under shade. Keywords: dyeing, indroka, common salt 314 034 2741 Spreading of thin layer of sand in the rearing room for sericulture This tecnology is practised in Krisnam Reddipalli village of Anantapur district in Andhra Pradesh. In summer season a thin layer of sand is spread in the rearing room below the rearing stands, and it is watered frequently. It reduces the temperature by increasing relative humidity in the rearing room. With high temperature in summer it is very difficult to rear silkworm. Keywords: layer of sand, watering, humidity, sericulture Krishi Vigyan Kendra Reddipalli, Anantapur (Andhra Pradesh) 515701 2738 Control of diseases for sericulture by exposing rearing equipments to hot sun It is practised in Krishnam Reddipali, Raghavam Palli and Dharmavaram in Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh. After harvest (cocoons) the rearing trays, rearing stand and mountages are placed outside the rearing house to expose to hot sun in summer with the objective of natural disinfections. Exposing the rearing equipments in sun helps kill the pathogens and microorganisms, thereby controlling the spread of diseases. Keywords: rearing equipment, hot sun, exposing, natural disinfection Krishi Vigyan Kendra Reddipalli, Anantapur (Andhara Pradesh) 515701 2744 Exposing mountages of cocoons to morning sunlight for better spinning For better spinning, mountages of cocoons are kept in slanting position and exposed to morning sunlight when temperature is optimum. This process also hastens spinning activity. This practice is being used by almost all sericulture farmers. Keywords: exposing, mountages, sun light Krishi Vigyan Kendra Reddipalli, Anantapur (Andhara Pradesh) 515701 2739 Use of kinnauri cap Kinnauri cap is traditional cap of district of Kinnour. All men and women wear it and they can be People of Himachal Pradesh at large Communicated by: Prof  recognized anywhere due to their caps. This cap is used throughout Himachal Pradesh since Biotime immemorial. Woolen threads from sheared wool of goats and sheep is used to prepare this cap. In the front portion a piece of red or blue makhmal is used. Keywords: kinnauri cap, woolen thread, sheared wool, makhmal L. R. Verma, Department of Biotime Sciences, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2740 Making of long coat (lohia) Wool is sheared from goats and sheep.