 Smaller field sizes maintain edge habitats and allow access to hedgerows, thus providing crucial nesting and feeding habitats for some farmland birds (Fahrig et al., 2011; ˇSalek et al., 2018). While the effects of agricultural intensification on bird populations have been widely studied on their breed- ing grounds, they are less known for the wintering grounds in the subtropics and tropics where many species 2 of 17 BHAGWAT ET AL. spend long periods of their annual migration cycle, especially so in the Asian flyways (Kirby et al., 2008; Somveille et al., 2013; Yong et al., 2021). This is mainly due to the absence of long-term bird monitoring programs, the lack of accurate, high-resolution land cover information, and poor recognition and protection of key winter habitats such as grasslands (Gangopadhyay et al., 2022; Ratnam et al., 2016). Especially for the Indian subcontinent, these knowledge gaps are important, given India’s major share in the global pro- duction of agricultural commodities with over half its land under cultivation (Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 2017), its large contribution to global bird diversity (Jenkins et al., 2013; Somveille et al., 2013), its sig- nificance as the primary wintering ground for Palearctic migratory birds moving in the Central Asian Flyway (Dasgupta et al., 2018; Somveille et al., 2013), and the increasing pressure on biodiversity due to high human population density and land use change (Hinz et al., 2020). Open ecosystems of India are diverse landscapes that consist of agriculture, grasslands, pastures, and fallow land (Madhusudan & Vanak, 2022; Rawat & Adhikari, 2015). They are also among the most threatened ecosystems in the country. The vast majority of semi-arid savanna grass- lands in India have been labeled as “wastelands” since the colonial era, mainly due to the absence of commercially usable timber in these ecosystems (Ratnam et al., 2016). This forest-centric conservation legacy persists, as grass- lands are frequently earmarked first for agricultural devel- opment, infrastructure projects, and afforestation, the latter often with non-native tree species (Vanak et al., 2014). Agricultural expansion and intensification are characterized by a shift towards monocultures, high- yielding varieties, and increasing use of fertilizers and pesticides, and have been particularly strong in the open ecosystems of central and western India (Hinz et al., 2020). Consequently, agricultural landscapes are now fragmented and commonly represent agriculture– savanna mosaics (Hinz et al., 2020; Tian et al., 2014). However, links between land use change in agricultural landscapes and the status of biodiversity, including bird populations, are largely unknown.