 Diverse culture systems such as monoculture, polyculture and IMTA are suitable for this species and yield 4.0 t ha-1 crop-1. Similarly, the technologies for captive breeding of promising fish species such as Mangroves Red snapper (Lutjanus argentimaculatus), Nona tengra (Mystus gulio), pearl-spot (Etroplus suratensis) and Hilsa shad (Tenualosa ilisha) were standardized by the ICAR institutions, facilitating their large-scale culture. Table 4. Milestones in brackishwater aquaculture research Year Milestone 1975 Standardization of induced maturation, breeding and larval rearing of penaeid shrimp. 1984 In vitro fertilization of egg and seed production of P. indicus achieved. 1987 Scientific shrimp farming - AICRP on Brackishwater Aquaculture; Production of 1-3 t ha-1 achieved. 1997 Hatchery technology for seabass breeding and seed production standardized. 2009 Import Risk Analysis and introduction of selectively bred SPF L. vannamei. 2015 Captive breeding seed production and farming technology of milkfish achieved. 2016 Biofloc-based nursery and grow-out shrimp farming technology developed. 2018 Improved breeding, larval rearing, and demonstration of the high-density culture of Indian white shrimp. 2020 Green-floc technology and CIBAFLOC consortium for biofloc development and bioremediation. 2021 Captive breeding and seed production of grey mullet and mangrove red snapper. 2.2.3. Mariculture The pioneering attempt for mariculture development in the country was initiated by ICAR- CMFRI in the 1970s in its Mandapam and Tuticorin centres with seaweed and bivalve culture. Institutes such as ICAR-CIBA and the National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT), and agencies such as MPEDA played prominent roles in expanding research and development activities for mariculture. Subsequently, trials on open-sea cage farming were initiated by ICAR-CMFRI in the mid-2000s. Though India has a projected mariculture Indian Agriculture after Independence 190 production potential of 4-8 Mt annually, the current mariculture production is <0.1 Mt. 2.2.3.1. Open-sea cage culture Open-sea cage farming in India was initiated by ICAR-CMFRI with the implementation of a demonstration project at four locations viz., Diu, Ratnagiri, Mandapam and Visakhapatnam. The first successful open-sea cage culture harvest was achieved in 2007 at Visakhapatnam with seabass in HDPE cages of 15 m diameter. Since then, the institute has been able to make several innovations in the designing and fabrication of cages and mooring systems, and standardized guidelines and practices. The low-cost cage farming technology was very well accepted by the fishermen groups and entrepreneurs in various maritime states. Two different versions of indigenously fabricated 6 m dia cages (GI and HDPE) are presently being adopted by fishermen.