 The major infrastructure was 100 per cent financed by government; the PPP came at the level of irrigation water distribution, with the cost split between the private investor and farms and there was a substantial irrigation subsidy (92 per cent of total costs of distribution + entire conveyance system). Farmers paid an initial subscription fee and a substantial annual fee and most of the water was used for low-value maize. The model was technically and financially successful but economically unprofitable. Understanding the strengths and weaknesses of each model would result in choosing the best for a particular situation. The scope for PPPs in irrigation supply is limited by the fact that full privatisation is impossible (government always has to subsidise and regulate) but the private sector can design, build and maintain the irrigation infrastructure and support on- farm irrigation. Options are much wider where irrigated agriculture is economically profitable due to high-value crops with effective marketing. 218 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series Key takeaways First focus of all agencies, government, users and private sector for sustainable irrigation should be on the economic profitability, and then on the funding and financial sustainability. 219 Social Issues and Sports IF NOT GLOBAL HUNGER INDEX, THEN WHAT? A.K. Nigam Hunger is defined in many ways: food and nutrition insecurity, reduced food intakes with physical sensation caused by lack of food, constant worries where and when their next food will come from and chronic undernourishment, that is not enough to eat to meet energy requirements. In the long time it leads to undernutrition/ mortality. Global Hunger Index (GHI) is used to compare hunger status in different countries. It is calculated and disseminated annually. It is the arithmetic mean of undernourished population, stunted children of under five years wasted children of under five years and mortality rate of under five children. All the indicators are standardized and assigned equal weights. In India, the question on hunger (two square meals a day) was first asked in NSSO consumption surveys. Limitations of global hunger index are as follows: 1. Estimates of GHI have an upward bias: hunger implies undernutrition though undernutrition does not imply hunger. Similarly, under 5 mortalities may have reasons other than hunger; 2. Upward bias in GHI has serious implications—It pushes up hunger estimates. The extent of the bias is likely to be substantial as hunger Prof. Arun Kumar Nigam, Former Professor, Indian Agricutural Statistics Research Institute (IASRI), New Delhi, has been a distinguished researcher of international eminence. His pioneering research areas were design of experiments, survey sampling, child health, nutrition, hunger, sustainable development goals, hygiene and education. 220 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series most likely would be a small part of undernutrition and mortality; 3.