4 15% in CM of pig, 10% in broiler feed 15% in CM of calves and lactating cows 15% in CM of calves 30% in CM of calves, 15% in broiler mash 10% in CM of milch cattle 20% in CM of calves 50% in CM of calves 15% in CM of milch cattle 20% in CM of calves and milch cattle 10% in CM of milch cattle 20% in CM of calves 25% in CM of calves 25% in calf starters 20% in CM of calves 20% in CM of calves and milch cattle 20% in CM of calves and milch cattle ANIMAL NUTRITION STUDIES... To bridge the gap between demand and supply of animal feed resources, an AlHndia Coordinated Research Project on the Utilization of Agricultural By- products and Industrial Waste Materials for Evolving Economic Rations for Livestock was started in 1967 at 4 centres. More centres have been added on over the years and the scope of the project has been widened. In 1995, a full-fledged institute, the National Institute of Animal Nutrition and Physiology, Bangalore, has gone functional. While new varieties of conventional feeds continue to be evolved, newer and alternative feed resources are regularly being tapped and analysed to feed the massive livestock population of the country and the crossbreds that require superior nutrition to express their genetic potential. ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY AND REPRODUCTION To improve the performance, standardization has been attempted in relation to various production systems in their capacity to boost the production of milk, meat, egg and fibre and the draftability of animals in varying climates. Progress in extending the viability of semen at room temperature and its preservation through deep-freezing under liquid nitrogen is spectacular. Semen is now transported when desired. Basic researches conducted on reproduction and endocrinology of livestock, Semen Freezing Laboratory of the especially buffaloes, assist in monitoring the reproduction cycle, estrus induction Project Directorate (cattle) checks : : : . Soe tha quly'of Bech semen sacle and diagnosis of pregnancy and its confirmation in very early stages. before it is frozen for transport and use elsewhere LIVESTOCK PRODUCTS TECHNOLOGY Milk products of the NDRI. The formulations are commercial-grade Quantitative and qualitative improvements in animal products and their diversification through value-addition find application in: preservation of raw milk at ambient temperature; preparation of khoa, kulfimix, gulab jamun-mix, rasogulla- At the NDRI, Karnal, the students are mix, paneer and chhana. trained in packaging of milk Starter cultures standardized by the NDRI are being used in making cheese, mozzarella, cheddar cheese, goat-milk cheddar cheese and fermented milk products, curd, butter-milk, butter-milk powder, yoghurt and shrikhand. Formulations recommended by the NDRI for the preparation of infant foods, malted milk, and low-lactose milk are of international standards. They are being widely made use of by the industry.