 PCR was standardized for early detection of Theileria annulata from lymphnode biopsy and blood of carrier cattle using small sub-unit ribosomal RNA gene. The protein profile of T. annulata by SDS-PAGE showed at least three major bands exclusively present in piroplasm (98, 32 and 20 kDa) and schizont (71,37 and 34 kDa) antigens. A PCR for detection of Babesia bigemina in carrier cattle detected 9 out of 11 normally healthy cattle as positive for babesiosis. A PCR assay using blood samples collected on filter paper was developed for detection of Trypanosoma evansi. Out of 47 blood samples of camel examined for trypanosomosis by PCR, 10 were found positive. Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD)- PCR was standardized for preferential amplification of Trypanosoma evansi. A survey on dogs of different species revealed that 5.51% were positive for Ehrlichia canis, 3.86% Hepatozoan canis and only 0.37% for Babesia canis. A sensitive and reliable nested PCR was developed for diagnosis of E. canis in dogs. Out of 170 blood samples of dogs, 109 were found positive by PCR, whereas, only 30 were positive by blood smear examination. HAEMORRHAGIC SEPTICAEMIA Out of 67 suspected Pasteurella multocida cultures only 47 were identified as P. multocida. Pathogenicity test and drug sensitivity of 35 and 101 cultures were carried out respectively. P. multocida serotype B:2 was identified from buffalo, cattle, pig, sheep, goat, poultry, tiger, lion and dog. Besides this, serotypes A:1, A:3, F:3 and F:3,4 were reported from cattle and A:1 and A:3 from buffalo. PM-PCR assay confirmed 150 isolates of P. multocida. These further, were confirmed by nested- PCR and multiplex PCR. H S specific PCR (HSB) was also carried out on 46 isolates of P. multocida only 24 isolates gave an amplified product of approximately 600 bp. Over and above this HSB-PCR using Brickell primer set were also carried out to develop PCR assay specific for P. multocida serotype A. Under this project a new primer set specific for serotype A was designed. Isolates (90) of P. multocida were tested with newly designed PCR primers and 24 isolates gave positive results. Further, it was confirmed by nested PCR for serotype A and also by conventional serotyping methods. P. multocida isolates were further characterized by using RE analysis, RAPD and PCR-RFLP. GASTRO-INTESTINAL PARASITISM In hot and humid zone,GI parasitism has higher incidence in sheep (80.6%) and goat (82.8%). In cattle and buffalo Strongyle infection was more in hill as compared to tarai and plain regions, whereas, in sheep and goat it was noticed reverse. In cold and humid region, of GI nematodosis occurred only in cattle and pig. In coastal area of Chennai, GI parasitism was more in high rainfall area followed by high altitude and Cauvery delta, whereas, in West Bengal GI parasitism occurred more in sheep followed by cattle, buffalo and goat.