 Discussion In the context of economic development and modernization, the emigration of labour from the agricultural sector has been a defining trait, evident throughout the historical progression of developed coun­ tries and currently observed in developing nations(Rozelle et al., 1999). The theory of New Economics of Labour Migration (NELM) also says migration can trigger a process of development that reduces production and investment limitations experienced by households in imperfect market conditions while establishing connections that lead to income growth in developing countries(Taylor, 1999). Therefore, remittances play a constructive role in fostering economic growth by positively influencing consumption, savings, and investment(Meyer & Shera, 2017). Concurrently, the utilization of remittances cannot be evenly distributed across all sectors, and multiple factors can impact how re­ mittances are utilized. Overall, this paper finds a significant impact of various socio-economic, demographic, and migration characteristics in remittance utilization on different agricultural expenses. The vast ma­ jority of agricultural households, accounting for approximately 86.4 %, operate small farm sizes of less than 2 ha. These farmers predominantly belong to socially marginalized groups such as SCs, STs and OBCs (Rao, 2017). Due to the high level of engagement in the agricultural sector among marginalized social groups, the probability of using remittances is likely higher in these categories. However, our study finding also shows that with increasing landholding size of the households, the likelihood of remittance use is also higher in every agricultural sector. The migration of adult men is strongly linked to an increase in the ability of left-behind women to make decisions (Hadi, 2001). Though men are more likely than women to make decisions on farms, this dynamic shifts when there is short-term migration in the household, increasing the likelihood of women making decisions on farms (Chandrasekhar et al., 2022). Similarly, a study in Mexico found that remittances received by female household members were more likely to be invested in agricul­ ture than remittances received by male household members (Salvador et al., 1995). The present study findings show that this statement is true because, from the study, it can be seen that there is a positive rela­ tionship between the remittance utilization in agricultural sectors and households with female headship. The phenomenon of feminization of agriculture in the Middle Ganga Plain region in India can be attributed to various factors. While it is evident that this trend is occurring, it is crucial to consider other contributing elements, such as land ownership, decision-making processes, and access to agricultural resources. Un­ derstanding these additional aspects could provide further insights into the processes driving the feminization of agriculture in the region.