50 June-July August- 500 Napier grass/ November paragrass + Cowpea/ Guar/Ricebean Barseem + Oat 0.50 October- December- 600 (Multicut) November April Maize + Cowpea/ 0.25 March- May-June 150 Guar/Ricebean April Maize + Cowpea/ 0.25 May-June July- 150 Guar/Ricebean August Multicut sorghum 0.50 June-July August- 600 + Cowpea/Guar/ November Ricebean Barseem + Oat 0.50 October- December- 600 (Multicut) November April Napier grass + 1.00 March- Round the 2000 Cowpea/Barseem April year (Rabi) Table 2. Green fodder production (q)/acre mango orchard Horti-pastoral system involves growing of fruit trees and grasses in combination. Fruits tress usually takes about 4-5 years to develop maximum canopy and hence allow cultivation of fodder intercrops in the initial years. Fruit trees form the 1* tier whereas grasses are grown as ground crop. Perennial forage grasses and legumes like Stylosanthes hamata, Styloasanthes scabra, Cenchrus ciliaris, C. setigerus, etc and annual fodder crops like copwpea, horsegram, sorghum, oat etc. are ideal crops for horti-pastoral system in semi-arid areas. Natural grasslands are main source of fodder to about 500 million animals in India mainly because the area under fodder production is low (4.4% of total cultivated area). Krishi Vigyan Kendra Banka have grown oat in rabi and ricebean, sorghum in kharif season in 5 mango orchards of average 2-2.5 acre in Amarpur block of Banka district in 2016. Presently, in Banka district, approx. 31 orchards were used for cultivating green fodder. During the intervention, it was observed that leguminous green fodder like rice bean require less water for growing and act as mulch and green fodder. After 2°¢ cutting when leave for fruiting, its seed fall down and regenerate in orchard after October. Due to rice bean crop, sunlight does not directly heat the soil of orchard, thereby preventing loss of moisture. Rice bean is a leguminous crop which fixes the nitrogen and improves the fertility of soil. Intercropping with traditional crop In rainfed situation, where limited area has facility of irrigation, intercropping of short duration forages in long duration food crops such as potato, which are widely spaced and offer good scope for accommodating legume and cereal forages in inert-row space in additive series was promoted by the KVK. As a result, in potato field about 40% area (av. 17424 sqft/acre) is vacant which was now used for fodder production by farmers. Intercropping of oat with potato is now a common practice in Banka district. In this, there are two types of cultivation practices followed which includes earthing up before and earthing up afterwards. In before earthing up cultivation, oat were sown with potato and cultivated in 30-40 days before earthing up of potato. In after earthing up cultivation, oat was sown after earthing up of potato and harvesting after 45 days. Production was higher in after earthing up cultivation (36.