 Project Work plan 2017 1 Genomic selection in buffalo In 2017, the project will build on year 1 activities aimed at strengthening the buffalo breeding program, via the incorporation of genomic selection. Here, ILRI and ICAR-CIRB will jointly work to continue incorporation of genomic selection into the breeding program. The focus will be on: • Develop a resource population for genomic selection of between 2000 and 3000 genotyped Murrah buffalo with appropriate trait records. • Digitization of buffalo records into a database. • Strengthen the field progeny testing scheme. • Develop and implementation an analytical platform for genomic selection. • Incorporate genomic selection into the breeding program, including potential changes to the breeding program structure for maximal benefit from the technology. 2 Multi- dimensional crop improvement including upgradation of LCB (i) Promising breeding lines for further genetic enhancement towards food-feed crop cultivars: Promising breeding lines will be identified by tracing parental lines of superior cultivars. In addition the genetic mode (additive, heterosis etc) of inheritance of fodder traits will be investigated by specifically designed key and proof-of-concept breeding trials including Conventional breeding such as recurrent selection as well as marker assisted selections approaches will be tested by integrating crop residue trait analysis in pertinent ongoing trials. (ii) Tools that assess economic viability of feed processing technologies that increase transport and storage worthiness of crop residues: The economy of feed interventions is often neglected by livestock nutritionists. The proposed ICAR-ILRI collaboration will develop a decision making tool that screens, supports and ranks options such as: 1) trading and transport of crop residues from surplus to deficit areas, 2) processing (for example chopping, baling, grinding) of crop residues for transport, 3) supplementation and processing (blocking, pelleting, mashing). The input requirements of these interventions will be compared with outputs (milk, meat in case of small ruminants) and related to information from farmers about their perception of non-acceptable, acceptable and attractive input to output ratios. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 58 Sl. No. Project Work plan 2017 (iii) Explore spin-off effects from second generation biofuel technologies for upgrading ligno cellulosic biomass for animal feed: The recent global interests in 2nd generation bio-fuel technologies with billions of US $ investments from private and public sector offers ample opportunities for upgrading ligno cellulosic biomass for animal feed. For 2nd generation bio-fuel technologies to succeed, economically efficient and environmentally acceptable technologies were/are required for hydrolysis of plant cell walls and release of glucose and other sugars from the lignified matrix. Animal nutritionists have the same objective.