 The State has a unique climate which offers tremendous opportunities for production of high quality temperate fruits, vegetables and flowers, which have commercial significance besides distinct nutraceutical and medicinal properties. The area under fruit crops in the State accounts for 10.1% of the total area under these crops in the country. The agro-climatic conditions of the State are suitable for growing temperate to sub-tropical fruits, such as apple, pear, peach, plum, apricot, persimmon, cherry, grape, almond, walnut, pecan nut, pistachio nuts, citrus, litchi, guava, kiwi, strawberry, banana, mango, olive, and aonla etc. The contribution of the State to the national fruit basket is very low as the cultivation is at a small scale. The productivity of fruits is low, considering the range of niche available for their cultivation in the State. The State is also suitable for cultivation of ancillary horticultural crops like flowers (orchids, gladiolus, marigold, chrysanthemum, cut flowers etc.), spices (ginger, saffron, chilly, cardamom, black pepper), mushroom, honey etc. The State also has the 576 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 advantage for cultivation of off-season vegetables and flowers. The Uttarakhand State lies mostly in the Agroclimatic Region No. 1, namely Western Himalayan Region. Within the State of Uttarakhand, there are two zones, namely the Hill Zone and Bhabhar&Terai Zone. Within an altitudinal variation ranging from 200 m to more than 8000 m above msl, the state comprises five lithotectonically and physiographically distinct subdivisions, namely, the Outer Himalaya comprising Tarai&Bhabhar, Sub-Himalayan belt of Shivaliks (300-1000 m), the Lesser/Mid Himalaya (1000-3000 m), the Great/Higher Himalaya (3000-7000 m), and the Trans-Himalaya or Tethys (> 7000 m). The State’s major natural resources are water, forests, floral and faunal biodiversity. The Ganga river basin, which originates in the form of Ganga and Yamuna rivers from the State, supports nearly 43% of India’s population. The State, however, itself supports only 0.83% (10.1 million) human and 0.93% (4.7 million) livestock populations of the country. The State is rich with forest resources. About 61% of the State’s total geographical area is under forests. The area under permanent pastures is about 3%, which is a support to livestock production system. Area under trees and area as culturable waste are 7% and 6%, respectively leaving only a small amount of land i.e. 706 thousand hectares (12%) for cultivation out of the total reported area. Though yields of major cereals, pulses and foodgrains as a whole along with oilseeds have increased over the years, the areas under the same, except under pulses, have decreased. 28.1 Productivity Gaps and Major Constraints In Uttarakhand, more than 69% of the population depends on agriculture for their livelihood. The average size of holding in the State is around 0.89 ha.