 of Jharkhand: Member viii) Director, Animal Husbandry, Govt. of Jharkhand: Member ix) Director, Fisheries, Govt. of Jharkhand: Member x) Nominee of Secretary DAC&FW: Member xi) Nominee of Secretary, DAHDF: Member xii) Nominee of Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources: Member xiii) Nominee of Secretary, Ministry of Food Processing Industries: Member 11. Karnataka: i) Vice Chancellor, University of Agricultural Sciences, GKVK, Bangaluru: Chair ii) Director, ATARI Bangaluru: Convener iii) Vice Chancellor, University of Agricultural; Sciences, Dharwad: Member 665 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 iv) Vice Chancellor, University of Agricultural Sciences, Raichur: Member v) Vice Chancellor, Karnataka Vety., Ani. & Fisheries Sci. Univ., Bidar: Member vi) Vice Chancellor, Univ. of Agri. and Horticultural Sciences, Shimoga: Member vii) Vice Chancellor, University of Horticultural Sciences, Bagalkot: Member viii) Director Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bangalore: Member ix) Director, National Institute of Animal Nutrition and Physiology, Bangalore: Member x) Director, NIVEDI, Bangalore: Member xi) Director, National Bureau of Agriculturally Important Insects, Bangalore: Member xii) Director Directorate of Cashew Research, Puttur: Member xiii) Director Agriculture, State of Karnataka: Member xiv) Director Animal Husbandry, State of Karnataka: Member xv) Director Horticulture, State of Karnataka: Member xvi) Director, Fisheries, Govt. of Karnataka: Member xvii) Nominee of Secretary DAC&FW: Member xviii) Nominee of Secretary, DAHDF: Member xix) Nominee of Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources: Member xx) Nominee of Secretary, Ministry of Food Processing Industries: Member 12. Kerala i) Vice Chancellor, Kerala Agricultural University, Trissur: Chair ii) Director CMFRI, Cochin: Convener iii) Vice Chancellor, Kerala University of Fisheries and ocean Studies, Kochi: Member iv) Vice Chancellor, Kerala University of Veterinary & Animal Sc., Wayanand: Member v) Director, Indian Institute of Spices Research, Calicut: Member vi) Director CIFT, Cochin: Member vii) Director, CTCRI, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala: Member viii) Director, CPCRI, Kasargod: Member ix) Director, ATARI, Zone XI, Bangalore: Member x) Director Agriculture, State of Kerala: Member xi) Director Animal Husbandry, State of Kerala: Member xii) Director Horticulture, State of Kerala: Member 666 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 xiii) Nominee of Secretary DAC&FW: Member xiv) Nominee of Secretary, DAHDF: Member xv) Nominee of Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources: Member xvi) Nominee of Secretary, Ministry of Food Processing Industries: Member 13.