 Technology Demonstration Component (TDC) of National Innovations in Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA) which aims at enhancing resilience of Indian agriculture and making Indian farmers more adaptive to climatic vulnerabilities has been implemented through 151 KVKs in climatically most vulnerable districts of the country as per the latest risk categorization. ICAR has stated Agri-Drone project, with funding support from Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Government of India, with objective of creating awareness among the farmers and other stakeholders and demonstrating the use of drone in agriculture in farmers’ fields. The innovative initiative “Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav” aimed to promote the direct interface of scientists with the farmers to hasten the lab-to-land process. The objective of this scheme is to provide farmers with required information, knowledge and advisories on regular basis by adopting villages particularly small and marginal farmers. Farmer FIRST is a flagship programme initiated by ICAR to move beyond production and productivity; to privilege the smallholder agriculture; and complex, diverse and risk prone realities of majority of the farmers through enhancing farmers-scientists interface. A total of 28,995 demonstrations were conducted, 2,972 extension programmes were organized, 1,03,492 animals (livestock and poultry) were benefited and 86,197 farm families were covered in all modules during the reporting period. Nutri-Sensitive Agricultural Resources and Innovations (NARI) Programme is a flagship programme initiated by ICAR at national level. Nutrition-sensitive agriculture puts nutritionally rich foods, dietary diversity, and food fortification at the heart of overcoming malnutrition and micronutrient deficiencies. Research for Tribal and Hill Regions: During the period under report, 17.453 tonnes breeder seeds of 49 released varieties/inbreds of 15 crops were produced and 16.054 tonnes breeder seeds were supplied to different seed producing agencies for downstream multiplication to foundation and certified seed. Around 1,433 kg nucleus seed of 40 released varieties of 15 crops were also produced following standard methods of maintaining genetic purity. In addition to this, 401 kg Truthfully Labelled (TL) seed of 09 varieties of 07 crops were produced and 258 kg TL seeds were supplied to different stakeholders. The central varieties, viz. VL Cookies wheat, VL Mandua 400 finger millet, VL Soya 99 soybean, and VL Uphar and VL Madhuri field pea; and state varieties, viz. VL Masoor 150 lentil and VL Matar 64 field pea were released for cultivation in north- west Himalayas. An IOFS model comprising different enterprises, i.e. cereals, pulses, oilseeds, vegetable crops and climbing vegetables on protective structure all along the farm pond, fruits, dairy, fodder crops, central farm pond, duckery, farmyard manure (FYM) pit and vermicomposting unit was designed and tested on long term basis.