 • In apple, three varieties (Ammol, Golden Snow and Amrit) have been developed with better fruit quality and three varieties (Priame, Pritor and Pride) have been developed as scab resistant varieties. • In garlic, CITH-G 3is recommended for release by AINRP on O&G. • In exotic vegetables, one variety each of Broccoli ( CITH –Broccoli-1), Chinese cabbage (CITH C C-1), two varieties of Swiss Chard (CITH SC-Green & CITH SC-Red) have been developed. • One hybrid of cabbage with bicoloured leaves has also been developed and ready for release. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Developed High density plantation in apple. • Developed Medium and High density plantation in other temperate fruit crops like pear, plum, cherry, apricot, peach, almond and walnut. • Developed Intensive saffron cultivation technology. • Promoted indigenous high quality walnut varieties. • Products like E-Nose, apricot fruit bar, cape goose berry jam, quince candy, dehydrated rose hips etc. developed. • Services provided: NDDMA (Mobile App; Nutrient deficiency diagnose and manager in apple), PPA (Software application: Predictor and planner for almond) and Land use contingency planner for apple and walnut (Online Application: LUCP). Apple var. Ammol Apple var. Priame Apple var. Golden Snow 69 Horticultural Science 69 ICAR-Central Island Agricultural Research Institute 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-CIARI, JP44+C84, Garacharama, Port Blair, Andaman and Nicobar Islands 744101 ii. Name of the Director: Dr Eaknath Bhanudasrao Chakurkar iii. Email Address: director.ciari@icar.gov.in: Phone Number: 03192-250436 2. Mandate and activities • To provide a research base to improve the productivity of agri-horticulture, livestock and fisheries of Andaman & Nicobar and Lakshadweep group of Islands through basic, applied and adaptive research. • Conservation, characterization and sustainable utilization of natural resources and harnessing through post harvest and value addition. • To standardize technologies for health coverage and bio security of plant, animal and fishery resources. • To standardize techniques for capture and culture fisheries including coastal aquaculture • Vulnerability studies of Island ecosystem and adaptive strategies to develop climate resilient agriculture. • Transfer of technology, capacity building, policy support and market intelligence to stake holders. Activities • Conservation and utilization of Island biodiversity • Enhancing the productivity of agriculture, livestock, and fisheries sector. • Management of biotic and abiotic stress. • Frontier research for knowledge and increased productivity. 3. Salient achievements • Developed varieties viz.Piper pendulispicum(woody pepper-rich in oleoresin content), Haematocarpusvalidus(Blood fruit – rich anthocyanin content, natural colourant), Garciniaandamanica(substitute for dry mango powder , dehydrated rinds as acidulant).