 He focused on supporting village or cottage industry and crafts as they can generate jobs that are required to fulfil the villagers’ daily requirements and also to promote self-sufficient villages. As a part of this, he established Khadi making units in the villages, Khadi was considered as an instrument for Gandhiji to decentralize the development and distribution of the fundamental needs of life and to ensure jobs for everyone. Gandhiji regarded Khadi as an unavoidable means to the nation’s overall growth and to banish pauperism. He said that Khadi ensured three basic necessities for poor: work, cloth and self-confidence (Tendulkar, 1951). He also prioritized the fostering of other sectors such as soap making, hand grinding and pounding, paper making, metal making, tanning, oil seed crushing etc. He supported manual work and criticized the implementation of automation, worrying that human labour would be replaced by the machines. But he welcomed and promoted the grass root innovations as it did not affect the employment opportunity and standard of living (Bora 1996). Gandhiji led the farmers of Champaran and Kheda in a satyagraha against the mill owners and landlords who were supported by the British government. He wanted to end oppressive taxation, and other policies that forced the farmers and workers and defend their economic rights. A major part of this rebellion was a commitment from the farmers to end caste discrimination and oppressive social practices against women. With that objective, he launched a cooperative effort to promote education, health care, and self-sufficiency by producing clothes and food that were made locally. 3.4. Bread Labour: Gandhiji was influenced by the works of Tolstoy and Ruskin, and urged that everyone should engage in physical labour irrespective of their designations. He named it as Bread Labour and told, “God has given everyone the capacity to work and earn more than his daily bread and whatsoever is ready to use that capacity is sure to find work”. He claimed that intellectual labour is for one’s own fulfilment and one should not claim for its payment. Theory of Bread Labour ensured employment opportunity for all and guaranteed basic needs such as food, clothing and shelter. Physical labour would also keep people healthy and free of diseases. The dignity of labour would thus shape the economic basis of the modern nation (Gandhi 1946) 3.5. Gram Swaraj: The word Swaraj was used by Gandhiji with a distinct meaning and significance i.e., Self-rule and Self-restraint. He defined it in terms of individual and nation. Swaraj of citizens means the total aggregation of the individual’s self-rule where as National Swaraj is the total sum of all efforts to create an ideal state on the basis of moral force. The citizens of such a state are aware of their moral power in its collectivity. Gandhiji was trying to identify the meaning of the Swaraj state with the Ramraj, the ideal state of Shri Rama.