 Export preference of organic vegetables offers a great scope to a country like India, which has inculcated the skill of growing organically since time immemorial. Organic farming is estimated to be growing at a rate of 30% a year worldwide in response to the market needs. This growth rate is highest in Japan, USA, Australia and EU. NPOP has been acclaimed by European Union, Sweden, Switzerland and USDA. Hence, any organic product certified by NPOP can be exported to Europe, Switzerland, Sweden and USA. For promotion of organic farming, identification of potential areas and crop is crucial. To begin with, the practice of organic farming should be for low volume, high value crops like fruits and vegetables, where instead of quantity, quality is more important. Further, vegetables crops such as leafy and root vegetables where use of higher doses of chemical fertilizers, especially, N may lead to higher NO3 content and imbalanced nutrition of crops, and plantation crops like tea, coffee, cashew nut, etc. where the nutrient removal is less and recycling through leaf fall is high are apt for organic farming. Horticultural crops having high export potential in international markets like spices, and local varieties of different crops having high quality and export potentials are suitable for cultivation under organic management. Soils having high fixation capacity of the nutrients like the calcareous, acidic and alkali soils, provide an opportunity for organic farming. Vegetables crops having great market potential find prominent place in the Government strategy to promote organic farming in the country. The rainfed and hilly areas of India provide considerable opportunity for organic farming due to least utilization of chemical inputs. It is estimated that 18 million ha of such land is available in the North-East region, which can be exploited for organic production. Status of organic farming in India As per the available statistics, India ranks 5th in terms of world’s organic agricultural land and 1st in terms of total number of producers. Further, India is ranked among the top three countries, wherein the highest increase in land acreage (i.e. 359000 ha or +16% increase) under organic farming was noticed. In terms of number of affiliates of IFOAM – Organics International, India secured the 4th position (Source: FIBL and IFOAM Year Book, 2022). In India, total area under organic production is 9.12 million ha (2001-21). This includes 4.73 m ha cultivable area and 4.39 m ha for wild harvest collection. Among all the states, Madhya Pradesh has covered largest area under organic certification, followed by Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Odisha. The total production is 3.44 million metric tonnes (2021-22) of certified organic products. Among different states, Madhya Pradesh is the largest producer, followed by Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Karnataka and Odisha. The total volume of export of organic produce during 2021-22 was 460320.