 Bill Gates at the Phenomics facility y A solar-biogas thermal energy based cold storage facility at Anand in Gujarat and solar PV power based cold storage facility at Bhopal has been developed. The facility for storage of about nine tones of the horticultural produce for a period up to six weeks has been developed. The facility may operate in either stand-alone or grid connected mode. So, it can be set-up in the production catchments which are not covered by the grid power supply. The facility has a “vapour absorption machine (lithium bromide water)”, which uses hot water at 80-90oC as main source as against the electricity in the common cold storages. A small PV power plant has been set-up to meet the auxiliary electricity requirements for operating water pumps and the fans. The cattle dung based low-cost water requirement biogas plant of innovative design for supply of thermal energy during the non-sunshine hours has been designed. 3.3 IP Filed/Registered/Granted Patenting is the process to protect technologies from being copied by others and providing the rights for licensing to industries for further distribution in the society. Through NASF supported projects, many technologies have been protected via product as well as process patents. About 32 patents have been Sagar Harita in deep Sea 71 filed, few have been granted and many more are in the active mode of filing. One international application (PCT for Microbial process for Production of Protein isolate / concentrate from de-oiled cakes / meals) has been granted. The list of patents (up to Dec. 2023) is presented below y Buffalo embryonic stem cell derived teratomas for the assessment of pluripotency. y A novel foot and mouth disease virus Asia (Indian vaccine strain) replicon based viral vector for vaccine research and development. y A peptide elicitor of NPR1 and PR proteins mediated pathogen defense in Indian mustard (Brassica juncea L.). y Fermentation vessel for conducting gas production studies (in vitro: Fabrication, protocol and uses). y An autoclavable microencapsulation system with multistage break up two fluid nozzles. y Microbial Consortium for nitrate and phosphate sequestration for environmental sustenance. y Method of improving elemental and nutritional content of plant seeds using Bacillus Strain MCC0008 as a biofertilizer. y Method of generating glyphosate tolerant transgenic plants, reagents and uses thereof. y A rapid, sensitive and user-friendly visual LAMP-based assay for detection of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR) virus in bovine semen. y Construction of glycoprotein E (gE) gene- deleted mutant of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR) virus Indian strain for DIVA-based marker vaccine. y A novel process for gossypol reduction and nutritive quality improvement of cottonseed cake for its use in non-ruminant’s feed.