 It has been reported on Mahua (Maduca indica) tree from Chhattisgarh and on longan (Dimocarpus longan; Sapindaceae) and rambutan (Nephelium lappaceum; Sapindaceae) by various workers from China, Thailand and other countries. Both adults and nymph feed mostly on tender plant parts such as growing buds, leaf petioles, fruit stalks and tender branches of litchi tree. Excessive feeding causes drying of growing buds, tender shoots and ultimately fruit drop off. In the north-western part of India, infestation of T. javanica occurs on litchi from the last week of April to the last week of August after which it undergoes hibernation in adult stages on litchi trees. The bug lays globular and off pink eggs, mostly in bunch of fourteen on lower surface of leaves. The insect passes through five instars, which are sub-rectangular and dark brick red Litchi stink bug in Bihar: Status, threats and management strategy Generally, low incidence of litchi stink bug had been recorded from different regions of India. But its incidence has increased in recent years especially in Jharkhand and the North-Eastern states. In 2018, this pest was seen in litchi orchards of Bihar for the first time. During last two years, damage in the orchards of Bihar was up to 100% where this pest attacked. The threats from this pest are so serious that it has the potential to completely eliminate litchi cultivation. Management of this pest requires an immediate action plan as well as long-term strategy which are being done by National Research Centre on Litchi in coordination with Horticulture Department, Government of Bihar. A detailed discussion of the current status, threats and management strategy of the stink bug is provided in this article. Litchi stink bug affected area on the map of East Champaran district of Bihar Indian Horticulture 10 except first instar. Newly emerged adult is dirty white and soft bodied insect but colour changes to yellow red after few days. The average duration of male and female adults is 43.2±7.7 and 47.2± 9.5 days, respectively. Life cycle is completed in about 80 days. Both adults and nymphs are able to expel offensive odours when disturbed. The head, pronotum, scutellum and elytra of the adult bug are light brown in colour. The underside of the body is white. The size of the bug is close to 15-20 mm, plus it has small triangular head. When people find a stink bug, their first instinct is to squish them. However, when disturbed or crushed, stink bugs have a tendency to release a bad-odour chemical from pores on the sides of their bodies. This is how the pest earned its name. This causes the problem of blisters on the body. Invasiveness and threats of the pest Invasive species are organisms that are introduced to an area where they are not known to occur. When a non-native organism is released into a new area, it will arrive without its natural enemies and the population can explode without anything standing in the way.