 The land suitability for turmeric cultivation in Kerala was analyzed using HadGEM2 Model based on the Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP)-4.5 for climate projection scenario of turmeric in 2050. The Overview icar annual report 2022-23 10 projections revealed increase in highly suitable area by 5% from 28% to 33% and decrease of 4% from 11% to 7% in non-suitable areas of turmeric which could positively contribute to its production. The spatio- temporal changes in maize yield studied using multi- model ensemble climate change projection derived from 30 general circulation models in 16 major maize growing districts of India. The projected reduction in maize yield is 16% to 46% under RCP4.5 and 21-80% under RCP8.5 without adaptation strategy. The combined adaptation strategies might reduce the loss in yield or even increase by 5-15% under RCP4.5 scenario. Rice-based IFS model for lowland conditions of West Coast and IFS model for dryland of Karnataka and transitional plain of Luni basin developed. Swarna Unnat Dhan (IET 27892), rice variety with multiple stress tolerance developed for irrigated transplanted condition of Bihar, Odisha, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Genome editing technology (CRISPR-Cas9) was used to create loss of function in mutants of the DROUGHT AND SALT TOLERANCE (DST) gene, a zinc finger transcription factor, in rice cultivar MTU 1010. Three homozygous mutants developed with reproductive stage tolerance to salinity stress. These lines were evaluated further for yield under drought stress and non-stress conditions. Under drought stress (-75 KPa), genome edited mutants showed significantly higher grain yield as compared with MTU 1010. Human Resource Development: Strengthening and development of higher agricultural education and quality assurance of AUs through accreditation and ranking process are the two major areas supported by ICAR. The strengthening of ICT facilities in AUs, emphasis on capacity building of the students and faculties through various training programmes under ICAR scheme as well as NAHEP helped enhance the capabilities of the faculties in various upcoming areas and improved the publications. AUs were also supported for encouraging holistic development of students, through creation of placement cells, support for sports facilities.The centralized admissions and national/international fellowships by ICAR helped improve academic ecosystem, and encouraged merit across AUs. National Professorial Chairs and National Fellow Scheme for promotion of excellence in research, Emeritus Scientist/ Emeritus Professor Schemes as a structural method of utilizing skill bank of the outstanding superannuated professionals in various disciplines to address faculty shortage. NAARM contributes immensely on wide range of issues of national and global importance apart from various courses on capacity building. The Academy has also been promoting online and digital education, startups for agripreneureship.