 Stem slender, angular, grooved; leaves 7-20 cm long, palmately 3-11 partite, stalked; leaflets Habit sessile, narrow-lanceolate, serrate, upper surface scabrid, lower slightly hairy; male flowers yellow, in short dense cymes uniting into a lax foliate terminal panicle, female flowers light green, solitary, in the axils of small membranous bracts; achene, smooth, shining, 4-5 mm long. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages 784 Control of constipation or bloat in animals Volume 2, page 356 Ajawain, amla, harad, bahera and amaltas Amaltas: Assamese: honalu, sonaru; Bengali: amultas, bandarlati, sundali; Gujarati: garmalo; Hindi: amaltas, bandarlauri; Kannada: kakkemara, rajataru; Malayalam: kanikonna, kritamalam, svarnaviram; Marathi: bahava, boya, chimkani; Oriya: soturongulo, sunari; Sanskrit: aragwadha, kritamala, svannavriksha; Tamil: arakkuvadam, konnei, sarakkondai; Telugu: aragvadhamu, kolaponna, rellachettu; Urdu: amaltas. English name Botanical name Amaltas: Golden-shower, Indian laburnum, purging cassia or fistula Amaltas: Cassia fistula Linn. Contents Active ingredients Geographical indications VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY : Amaltas: The bark possesses tonic and anti-dysenteric properties. It is also used for skin complaints. The wood is given in dysentery; the ash is reported to be employed as caustic to open abscesses. The powder or decoction of the bark is administered in leprosy, jaundice, syphilis and heart diseases. The stem bark is reported to be eaten raw for stomachache. The pods are known for their laxative properties. The drug consists of the dried pod, known as cassia-fruit, or cassia-pod, and its pulp, cassia pulp. The pulp is a safe purgative, and is recommended for children and pregnant women. It is given in disorders of liver and in biliousness, and acts as a tonic; it is also applied in gout and rheumatism. The leaves are eaten. Though reported not to be grazed by cattle and goats, they are used as fodder for livestock. They are also a source of green-manure. The flowers contain methyleugenol. Methyleugenol is reported to attract the fruitfly, Dacus dorsalis (Hendel). : Amaltas: A deciduous, medium-sized tree up to 24 m in height and 1.8 m in girth, with a straight bole up to 15 m, found both wild and cultivated almost throughout India. Bark grey, smooth, exfoliating in small, woody scales up to 1.5 cm thick; leaves 20-40 cm, rachis and petiole glandless, leaflets 4-8 pairs, distinctly stalked, 5-15 cm long, oblong or ovate, clothed with young, caducous, silvery pubescence; flowers bright yellow, in axillary, pendulous, lax racemes; pods cylindrical, pendulous, smooth, hard, dark brown or black, up to 60 cm x 2.5-3.0 cm; seeds light brown, hard, smooth, shiny, 0.7-1.0 cm x 0.5-0.7 cm, biconcave, 40-100, embedded in sweetish pulp.