 A preliminary estimation shows that upscaling of conservation agriculture in 25% of net cultivated area (140 Mha), rehabilitation of 25% of the degraded land (26 Mha), precision agriculture in 30% of the net cultivated area, diversification of rice-wheat system to upland cropping system in 10 Mha, adopting paramparagat Krishi Vikash Yajana (PMVY) and organic farming in 30% of the net cultivated area, and using renewable energy in 50% of the net cultivated area will have net mitigation of about 160 Mt CO2 eq./yr. GenNext technologies and macro-scale initiatives The next generation technologies in micro or field scale and crop-based systems will expedite the goal of achieving the net zero target much earlier than 2070. Implementation of smart TIFER: tillage (Conservation tillage), irrigation (Micro, sensor-based), fertilization (Demand-driven, sensor-based), energy (Solar) and residue management (Recycling and reuse) are the keys for net zero emission. Moreover, there is a need of macro-scale initiatives as given below. • Agro-ecological planning for agriculture: Growing crops in suitable areas for nature-friendly farming the crop planning is important. Growing rice in upper-Gangetic plain of north-west India emits 3.9 t CO2 eq./ha, but in the lower IGP the emission is 3.3 t CO2 eq./ ha. Energy consumption in the upper IGP emits 37% of the GWP. This can be substantially reduced to about 20%, i.e. corresponding values for the lower IGP, with crop planning. • Rehabilitation of degraded lands: Government of India has already a plan for rehabilitating 26 Mha degraded lands with orchards, agro-forestry and so on. • Use of renewable (solar) energy in agriculture. Way forward Besides technologies, however, policy formulation and implementation are bigger challenges. Upscaling of the proven technologies need more emphasis. For example, we are promoting conservation agriculture for last 25 years but the area under this only about 2.5–3.0 Mha. There are a few ground-scale challenges as well. For example, mitigation by a small farm is very small (1.0–1.5 t/ha). Therefore, a large number of farmers need to join together to make a marketable carbon credit. Moreover, agricultural carbon sequestration is long-term phenomenon. Farmers may not continue such practices for such a long time. Wrong or incomplete practices of organic farming and conservation agriculture may increase GHG emission. Adopting natural farming, will reduce emission but may compromise with the food security. Indian crop sector can achieve the target of net zero much earlier than 2070. However, institutions need to be reshaped towards resource conservation and climate-resilience. This requires significant financial and institutional investment in scaling up these technologies including capacity building of farmers, researchers and policy-makers. SUMMARY Agriculture provides the options for the carbon reduction through mitigation of CH4 and N2O emission and carbon sequestration.