 The highest number of technology licensing agreements were signed by the ICAR-IARI, New Delhi (150); followed by ICAR-IIHR, Bengaluru (83); ICAR-CPCRI, Kasaragod (58); ICAR-NRC Banana, Tiruchirappalli (30), ICAR-CARI, Izatnagar (28), which accounts 50% of total licensing. Out of 691 licensing agreements, 265 were signed with IP protected technologies (i.e. protection under Design/Patents/Trademark/Copyright/PPV&FR registry) which secure 38.35% share of total licensing. Professional service: This year, 356 agreements Activities were signed for Consultancy/Contract Research and Service with 251 public and private organizations. In this process 54 ICAR institutes were involved from different Subject Matter Divisions, by providing different professional services. Incubation Fund To enhance the agri-business environment at Council 50 Agri-Business Incubation Centers (ABICs) have been supported at various institutes for facilitating the entrepreneurs/innovators/scholars/start-ups. During the reporting period, these centers had facilitated 559 such stakeholders for their business incubation activities. These efforts, motivated 192 entrepreneurs/startups to initiate their own business. To provide awareness and training on agri-business enterprises 171 Entrepreneur Development Programmes (EDPs) were organized by these centers, wherein 3,665 stakeholders were benefitted. To boost-up the partnerships with public and private organization 804 meetings/negotiations/ technology discussions were organized. These centers were also visited by different technology seekers/ inventors/business people/VIP/VVIP/ foreigners. ICAR has several laboratories that are engaged in various types of services/testing, both for internal and external clients. It is important that any such testing is done in a standardized protocol and environment, which uses a mechanism that ensures that the laboratory produces valid test results.One such mechanism is accreditation of these laboratories using an international standard, i.e. ISO/IEC 17025:2017 “General requirement for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories”. Worldwide, this standard is used by Accreditation Bodies to accredit testing and calibration laboratories. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 195 IP, ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT Mr. C. Arivumani is a sole proprietor of Imaya Marketing and having 20 years of experience in FMCG sector as a distributor in marketing. With the aim of starting his own production cum marketing value chain he approached the ICAR-National Research Center on Banana, Tiruchirappalli. The banana central core stem, once viewed as a mere byproduct, is emerging as a valuable resource in various sectors. Entrepreneurs who recognize its potential and are willing to explore innovative ways to use this often-overlooked part of the banana plant can find exciting opportunities for business growth and sustainability.