 Improving post-harvest storage and transportation methods can help to reduce food waste and increase the shelf life of cucurbitaceous vegetables. Additional research into the nutritional content and potential health benefits of cucurbitaceous vegetables can lead to increased demand among consumers for these products. *Corresponding author email: neerajatic@gmail.com Indian Farming 41 October 2024 On-farm processing and value-addition of horticultural produce Sandeep Mann*, Renu Balakrishnan, Soumya Mohapatra, Rajiv Sharma, Awani Shrivastav and Simran ICAR–Central Institute of Post-Harvest Engineering and Technology, Ludhiana, Punjab 141 004 The horticultural sector is a vital contributor to agricultural income and livelihood stability, with India being one of the largest global producers of fruits and vegetables. However, the highly perishable nature of these crops necessitates efficient post-harvest management to reduce losses, extend shelf life, and maintain quality. ICAR-CIPHET, Ludhiana, under the Farmer FIRST Programme (FFP), has initiated several programs, such as on-farm handling, value-addition, and the establishment of packhouses, to improve the processing and marketability of horticultural produce. This project was implemented in Punjab, focusing on training and establishing facilities for processing and minimal handling of fruits and vegetables. Farmers were trained in sorting, grading, and packaging techniques to reduce losses and increase profitability. The initiative also promotes the development of value-added products like pickles and the establishment of packhouses for efficient post-harvest management. Packhouses play a critical role in the supply chain by handling operations such as cleaning, pre-cooling, and packaging, ensuring produce reaches markets in optimal condition. This initiative has enhanced farmers’ incomes by enabling better market access and product diversity through minimal processing methods that preserve freshness, flavour, and nutritional quality. Keywords: Farmer FIRST, Horticultural produce, On-farm processing, Packhouse, Value addition H ORTICULTURE is increasingly acknowledged as a promising sector due to its ability to enhance agricultural income, ensure livelihood stability, and generate foreign exchange earnings through exports. India’s diverse agro-climatic conditions and crop variety enable year-round production of a wide range of horticultural crops. The country’s variety of climates and regions make it ideal for growing fruits, vegetables, flowers, nuts, spices, and more. Additionally, the rising demand for nutritious and organic food products, both domestically and globally, further strengthens the growth potential of this sector. Technological advancements in horticulture, including improved cultivation techniques and post-harvest management, also contribute to increased productivity and better- quality yields.