 This system is implemented in three phases—(i) digging and spreading the soil in phased manner, (ii) digging the basement at the mouth of the nalah and (iii) construction of Pucca wall on nala for removal of excess water.This system is useful for providing life-saving irrigation for rainy season (kharif) crops or pre-sowing irrigation to winter season (rabi) crops (Rajasthan). Singh and Khan (1999) 38 Indicators of irrigation requirement (i)A thin bamboo stick is placed vertically in standing crop.If it does not fall, it indicates that the crop is severely in need of irrigation. (ii) If there is a crack in land and curling and tubular folding leaves occurs it indicates that crop needs irrigation. (iii) If plants start wilting and leaves yellowish in colour the crop needs irrigation (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 10 RAIN WATER MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 39 Moisture measurement with Belcha (spade) Optimum irrigation is regulated by farmers of Ladakh by inserting a belcha (spade) in the soil. If it is completely inserted (front portion), the land is considered to be properly irrigated. Similarly, in few other cases, mud is thrown in the air. Its splitting into pieces shows proper irrigation. Complete insertion of the front portion of belcha (spade) or throughing of mud in the air and its consequent splitting into pieces indicate the soil-moisture level at field capacity (Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir). Verma (1998) 40 Methods of in situ moisture conservation and run-off management Different indigenous technologies such as mulching in turmeric before planting, summer ploughing, construction of brush wood structures,ploughing across the slope, sowing the seeds along the furrows, sowing the seeds behind the plough and planting the seedlings along the ridges were found to be effective in Kandhamal district of Orissa. Subudhi and Mishra (2002) 41 Vetiver grass for controlling soil erosion Vetiver grass are used for several centuries as a medicinal plant and as a source of essential oils for scenting perfumes and soaps. Vetiver grass also was known to be useful in strengthening the banks of ponds, rivers, canals, and rice paddies. A vetiver grass hedge is permanent enough that it can be used as a legal boundary marker in some places. The spread of the use of vetiver hedges with contour farming is relatively recent (Lowlands in North of Delhi). Puffer, Paula (1994) 11 2 Methods to Check Soil and Water Erosion S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 1 Bench terracing for rain water management The terraces are constructed across the slopes (along the contour). The size of the terrace is decided by the prevailing degree of slope and are supported by risers of suitable height and width. The risers are sometimes made up of loose boulders supported by grasses which provide strength to the risers owing to the binding action of the roots. The roots of grasses help to drain excess water.