 The findings are bene­ ficial in quantifying the absolute impact of drought on rice crops and in comparing the loss incurred with that of other major crops. This could facilitate the selection of the best feasible crop to be cultivated during drought conditions in order to mitigate potential risks and minimize impacts on crop production and economic loss. As the globe continues to warm, more extreme climate situations and the frequency of severe-to-extreme droughts are expected to increase in the future. The average mean temperature risk in India is predicted to increase by 2.4 to 4 ◦C by the end of the 21st century, which may surely cause more hydro-meteorological hazards (Krishnan et al., 2020). However, no study has investigated the comprehensive drought risk for crop production suggesting the best feasible location-specific risk mitigation stra­ tegies. Most previous research has focused primarily on drought hazards and their impacts, with very few studies considering in- depth drought risk assessment in combination with drought haz­ ards, vulnerability, and exposure risk. The results do not only help to understand the impacts of drought but also help to adapt the best feasible drought risk mitigation strategies and effective climate-proofing strategies over the most affected region under the worst-case scenarios. The results of future projections help prioritize the risk mitigation strategies and justify utilizing the appropriate resource inventory for imple­ mentation. Eventually, this will support government efforts to achieve sustainable agricultural development, alleviate hunger, and move closer to meeting the pledged international targets, including the Sendai Framework and the SDGs. Introduction Various studies on climate projections demonstrate that freshwater resources are strongly impacted by climate change worldwide, which can affect the sustainability of ecosystems and human societies (Bates et al., 2008). Water availability and accessibility are the most significant constraints for crop production. Therefore, it is crucial to address them in areas affected by water scarcity to maintain the crop production sustainability. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, most water resources worldwide will be subject to the adverse effects of climate change (Mancosu et al., 2015). Water shortage is a primary global issue, and many regions already experience serious water availability issues, which are expected to become more critical in the future (Bharat and Dkhar, 2018). In India, water demand has increased several manifolds over the years owing to the increasing urbanisation, agriculture expansion, population growth, rapid industrialisation, and economic development (Mall et al., 2006; Bhuvaneswari et al., 2013). The most critical impacts related to water resources are associated with agricultural systems and food security.