 In newly established orchard sowing of pulses/ vegetables. Right time for management of mealy bug by tying polythene banding around the tree trunk and apply grease at the lower end Mulching of fruit tree basin (mango, litchi, etc.) by fallen leaves and dried weeds and grasses/ plant residues for soil moisture conservation. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 180 November Intercultural and earthing-up operation in potato, cole crops and solanaceous vegetables and apply remaining doe of fertilizers. Sowing of vegetables pea var (Bonneville/ Arkel/ Azad matar) and planting of tomato, brinjal and other crops. Before sowing treat the seeds with Rhizobium and apply Trichoderma in the field Protection from frost, make thatch in new gardens with straw, grass etc. Do weeding and cleaning of tree trunks and apply well rotten manure of 40-50 kg per tree dung. To control shoot borer, thrips, hoppers and other lepidopterrean pest sprays of Imidacloprid 17.8 SL (by making a solution in 1 ml per liter of water). Right time spraying zinc sulphate for shoot maturation and bearing regulation apply KNO3 (Potassium nitrate 1%) in litchi and Mango. Dimethoate /Metacystax (02 ml) 3 ml on trees. Spray Rogar/ Metasystax / Demacran and 30 gm Dithane M-45 dissolved in 10 litres of water. December Irrigate the field as per need and spray fungicide if the disease incidence occurs in potato and other vegetable crops. Spray mancozeb at 0.25% followed by cymoxanil + mancozeb or metalaxyl 8 + mancozeb 64%WP (0.25%) at 0.3% at the onset of disease and one more spray of mancozeb at 0.25% seven days after application of systemic fungicides and apply light irrigation in the field. To protect the new orchards from frost, apply light irrigation. Apply the recommended amount of phosphorus and potash to the trees. Right time renovation of old senile mango and guava orchard. For the control of bark-eating insects and stem-bearing insects, clean the traps and holes, insert a bit of cotton soak in Kerosin oil ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 181 and plug with mud or dung. January Right time for preparation of field for summer season vegetables, sowing of seed of vegetables and transplantation of onions. Intercultural operation and irrigation in vegetable peas. Prepare Brinjal, Tomato, Chilli plant for the prevention of fungal disease of peas, spray Karathane 0.1% during morning hours. To protect the mango crop from honeybee and other pests, use the prescribed insecticide. Irrigate the potato after 10 to 15 days as per the need. Spray mancozeb at 0.25%. Use dung manure and phosphorous fertilizers in fruit trees in the first week of January. If there is no rain, apply light irrigation and give half of the recommended amount of nitrogen. Irrigate small plants for protection them from frost.