 In the event of the termination of the project because of the violation of the Terms and Conditions of Agreement by the Mortgagor or for any other reason, the Mortgagee shall be entitled to enforce this security of the Mortgage at any time and recover the amount paid to the KVK/ Mortgagor with interest and costs of recovery by sale of the Mortgaged property or in such other manner as may be permissible under the Law. 7. If the Mortgager utilizes/applies the fund for a purpose other than for which it was sanctioned or becomes insolvent, it shall be lawful for the MORTGAGEE without intervention of the court to sell the said mortgaged property or any part thereof either together or in parcels and either by public auction or by private contract with power to buy in or rescind and contract for sale and to resell without being responsible for any loss which may be occasioned thereby and to do and execute all such acts and assurances for effectuating any such sale as the mortgagee shall think fit AND IT IS HEREBY declared that the receipts of the mortgagee for the purchase money of the premises sold or any part thereof shall effectually discharge the purchaser or purchasers there from AND IT IS HEREBY declared that the MORTGAGEE shall hold the moneys to arise from any such sale in pursuance of the aforesaid power upon TRUST in the first place there out to pay all the expenses incurred on such sale and then to pay moneys in or towards the satisfaction of the moneys for the time being owing on the security of these presents and the balance if any to be paid to the MORTGAGOR. 8. In the event of violation of any of the terms & conditions mentioned hereinabove or mentioned in the agreement, then the Mortgagee shall have the first right over the other creditors on the property in question. 9. The Mortgagor assures the Mortgagee that the Mortgaged property has not been alienated, mortgaged or any agreement to sell has not been entered or done by the Mortgagor at the time of entering into this deed. 150 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK SCHEDULE OF LAND (To be filled in by Mortgagor) IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE MORTGAGOR has hereunto set his hand and Dr./Shri . ........................... In the Ministry/Office of …………………………………. for and on behalf of the Secretary, ICAR Society hereunto set his hand. Signed by the said (Mortgagor) ……………………………………................................................. In the presence of First witness : Address : Occupation : Second Witness : Address : Occupation : Signed by Dr./Shri ....................................... in the Ministry of ........................................ for and on behalf and by order and direction of the Secretary, ICAR Society. In the presence of: First witness : Address : Occupation : Second Witness : Address : Occupation : 151 Appendices APPENDIX VI Essential qualifications as prescribed by ICAR for the recruitment of staff under KVK I.