 India’s vehicle scrappage policy came into effect in 2021, which was expected to contribute towards all three aspects of sustainable development. However, past examples from the US and Germany indicate that ‘cash for clunkers’ initiatives may not yield signiﬁcant beneﬁts. Also, India’s capacity for safe and efﬁcient vehicle scrappage and recycling remains uncertain. The Battery Waste Manage- ment Rules were introduced in 2022 to ensure the reuse and recycling of used batteries through Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR). While effective implementation can 32 H. Saranga et al. help in ensuring security and cost beneﬁts for raw material supply in the future, the limits (on the use of heavy metals and chemicals) and labelling requirements need to be more comprehensive to facilitate efﬁcient recycling processes, speciﬁcally for lithium-ion batteries. Requisite changes to promote a sustainable transport system The primary problem does not lie in the lack of policies (as can be seen in Table 3); instead, it lies in the implementa- tion of policies. Similar to rapid urbanisation and motorisa- tion, rapid implementation of sustainable transport policies is crucial for long-term sustenance, and hence, strengthen- ing institutional capacity for policy implementation is a must. Even before implementation, the priority of policy direc- tion must be ﬁxed. Policies focused on monetary incentives for personal vehicles are expensive and can only do so much (Kaiser, Henn, & Marschke, 2020); a case in point is the drop in electric 2-wheeler sales after capping FAME-II incentives (see Figure 9). The ﬁrst objective should always be limiting the accelerating number of vehicles on the road, and then, increasing the adoption of greener vehicles. The rise in income levels has led to rapid growth in motorisation, especially for 2-wheelers (Anup & Yang, 2020); a similar will be the case for 4-wheelers in the next 23 decades (Kamboj et al., 2022). While the growing motorisation ﬁgure may look good for a developing country, the same leads to increased pollution, road congestion, and accidents. The focus must be shifted from private to public transport. There are several schemes and missions, but the adoption has been a big challenge. The efﬁciency, afford- ability, and accessibility of public transport networks will play a crucial role. Subsidising commuters (even if tempo- rary) should be the primary tool to increase adoption (Yang & Lim, 2018). This subsidy could be funded by charging a congestion fee from personal vehicle users in high-density locations or partnering with enterprises that beneﬁt from an expanded customer base due to higher ridership (Siddiq, Tang, & Zhang, 2022). All the policies around electriﬁcation, alternative fuels, energy efﬁciency, modal shifts, and moderation in transport demand have signiﬁcant co-beneﬁts towards environmental sustainability. Energy efﬁciency policies have the most potential for reducing CO2 and PM2.