 We used data collected by NFHS-4 from all the districts for children under ﬁve years of age ( NFHS, 2016 ). The NFHS is a large-scale, multi-round survey conducted primarily by the International Insti- tute for Population Sciences (IIPS), based on a representative state- level sample of households throughout the country. The most re- cent NFHS-4 survey provides district-level information on several essential parameters of health and family welfare. To examine the 2093 M. Sehgal, S.K. Ghosh, K.N. Singh et al. Sustainable Production and Consumption 27 (2021) 2090–2100 vulnerability of child health to food insecurity in districts of In- dia, a child health index (CHI) was developed. The CHI comprises of ﬁve indicators of malnutrition, i.e. underweight, stunting, wast- ing, anaemia, and diarrhoea among children. The vulnerability in- dex of agriculture to climate change (VI), created by NICRA, was used ( Rama Rao et al., 2013 ). These two indices were used in the present study to identify the districts that require priority atten- tion for food and nutrition security. 3.1. Vulnerability index of agriculture to climate change Vulnerability Index of agriculture to climate change (VI) devel- oped by the GoI’s NICRA was used to identify districts vulnerable to climate change. Vulnerability is a function of character, magni- tude, and rate of climate variation to which a system is exposed, its sensitivity and adaptive capacity ( IPCC 2001 ). The NICRA study has adopted deﬁnition of vulnerability given by IPCC i.e., the de- gree to which a system is susceptible to, or unable to cope with, adverse effects of climate change, including climate variability and extremes. Thus, vulnerability has three components: adaptive ca- pacity, sensitivity, and exposure ( Rama Rao et al. 2013 ). The ‘in- dicator method’ was used to construct the vulnerability of agri- culture to climate change. The indicators were chosen based on published literature, discussions with experts, and nature of rela- tionship with the three components of vulnerability. The indica- tors that determine the extent and intensity of the possible effects of climate change and/ or variability were considered as reﬂect- ing sensitivity. The variables/ indicators that are relatively more re- sponsive to policy measures are included in the adaptive capacity. The determinants of exposure are derived from climate projections (as done in O’Brien et al., 2004 ). The indicators considered in the vulnerability components (sensitivity, exposure, and adaptive ca- pacity) are given in Table A1 as Supplementary Material ( Rama Rao et al., 2013 ). The indicators under these components were normal- ized and a weighted mean of indicators was identiﬁed.