 Sperm morphology and ultra-structure of spermatozoa, sperm transport, maturation and storage in male genital tract, Secretions of male reproductive tract including accessory glands and their role in reproduction, Sexual/mating behaviour. Training of young bulls for semen collection, Semen and its composition, biochemistry of semen and sperm metabolism, sperm abnormalities and its classification, sperm separation and spermatozoa karyotyping. Breeding soundness evaluation of bulls, testicular cytogram, routine semen analysis, advances in semen analysis techniques including fluorescent dyes. Unit 6 : Male Infertility Fertility, infertility and sterility in male domestic animals. Causes and forms of male infertility. Testicular hypoplasia, cryptorchid, testicular degeneration, orchitis, affections of epididymis, vas deference, penis, prepuce and accessory glands & their management, tumors of the male reproductive tract, nutritional infertility, Vices in the males. Libido problem and its management, fertility markers. Evaluation of male for breeding soundness, reproductive health status. Effect of parental drugs and vaccines on semen quality. Unit 7 : Frozen Semen Technology and Artificial Insemination History and development of artificial insemination. Advantages and disadvantages of AI and frozen semen, selection of bulls for AI purpose. Management of breeding bulls, methods of semen collection in different domestic animals, semen evaluation including latest techniques for evaluation of motility and fertilization. Ideal extenders, extenders for liquid semen. Preservation of semen at various temperatures. Processing and preservation of liquid semen. Extenders for frozen semen, principles and techniques 73 of semen freezing. Cold shock and ultra-low temperature shock. Cryoprotectants. Semen additives. Evaluation of frozen semen. Transport and storage semen. Handling of frozen semen, Liquid nitrogen and its containers. Insemination techniques. Estrus and estrus detection tools, Planning and organization of semen bank. Unit 8 : Reproductive Technology Synchronization of oestrous cycle in domestic animals, control of ovulation. Embryo transfer technology – History, advantages and disadvantages, superovulation, collection, evaluation, preservation and transfer of oocytes / embryos. History of in vitro maturation and fertilization. Recovery of oocytes in vitro and in vivo, maturation, fertilization, culture, evaluation, preservation and transfer of oocytes / embryos. Micromanipulation of embryos. Embryo splitting and cloning. Stem cells and production of transgenic animals. Sex determination and gene insertion. Establishment of laboratory for ETT, IVM, IVF and IVC. Use of Ultrasonography, laparoscopy and ovum-pick technology in farm animals. Unit 9 : Infertility in Cows and Buffaloes Fertility, infertility and sterility. Fertility indices, Evaluation of herd fertility.