 yy Partner AU have developed horticulture crop cultivation under various conservation agriculture (CA) systems such as Arecanut based cropping system: Arecanut + Carrot-Mint-Kharif onion, Mango-Arecanut based cropping system: Mango + Arecanut + French bean – Amaranthus - Kharif onion, Mango based cropping system: Mango + Guava + Berseem - Pumpkin etc. Continuos efforts to promote such diversification for sustainable agriculture through various field demonstrations and awareness programs for farmers are being conducted under NAHEP. yy Partner AU have developed several crop advisory based mobile applications to increase efficiency, decrease cost of cultivation and improve yields. – Urea Guide App application provide recommendations to the farmers on the usages of fertilizers and pesticides on the basis of leaf colour c ombi nat i ons . The adoption of the Urea Guide App based N m a n a g e m e n t practices helps in optimizing the fertilizer N use, increases farmers’ income, reduces i n s e c t i c i d e and pesticide consumption and also addresses the challenges related to air and water pollution. It also led to an equivalent grain yield with an average saving of 50-80 kg N per hectare in Rice and 50 kg N per hectare in wheat in comparison with the farmers' usual practice. – Time variable rate fertilizer application has also developed, which help in precise real time application of fertilizer according to the spatial variability of the field. Also, it helps in reducing the fertilizer usages by about 10- 25%, and decreasing the cost of production while protecting the environment by reducing leaching. – An intelligent pest and disease forewarning system for Rice, Pigeon pea, and Grape using information and communication technology OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 25 (ICT) and the Internet of things (IoT) is a promising system in the area of pest and disease forewarning. It aims to increase farm productivity for better managing crops. Web portal forecasts the occurrence of pests and diseases using automated weather station (AWS) data and micro climatic parameters. Farmers receive pest and disease forewarning information as well as effective crop management practices through electronic media such as SMS and mobile applications. Goal 8: Promote sustained, in- clusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive em- ployment and decent work for all NAHEP, since its inception, has consistently focused on developing resilient infrastructure in agriculture and allied sectors across the country. Due to social distancing measures and travel restrictions during the Goal 9: Build resilient infrastruc- ture, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation Agriculture and allied sector in India accounts for around 17 % of the GDP, 13 % of exports, and 55 % of employment. However, a 2014 assessment of human resource requirements shows an annual deficit of 14,000 qualified individuals in India's agricultural and allied sectors.