 Persisting indifference to rural women's contribution to agriculture and the constraints on women's access to productive resources might impede achieving food na, security goals (FAO 2004). MAIN OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY: 1. To identify the role of women in different agriculture sectors. To identify the various types of obstacles in the growth of women in agriculture sector and its related sector To analyze the gender differences in roles and activities in agri- culture sector. 2 3. 4. The role of Indian government in the agriculture sector. ROLE OF WOMEN IN DIFFERENT AGRICULTURE SECTORS: Women make essential contributions to the agricultural and rura economies in all developing countries. Their roles vary consideraoiy between and within regions and are changing rapidly in many parts the world, where economic and social forces are transforming u Women Empowerment & Economic Development / 35 agricultural sector. In India most of women is very active in rural area or villages. Rural women play a crucial role in agriculture sector and perform mumerous labor intensive works such as grass cutting, picking, and weeding, hoeing, separation of seeds from fiber, tending animal, processing and preparing food, engage in trade and marketing, caring for family members and maintaining their home and other related work. Most of the activities are not for "economically active employment for nations but they are essential to the wellbeing of rural households. Now days women plays different role in different sector: (A) Role Performance of Women in farm activities Boserup (1970), in her classic work on women in agriculture, first drew attention to the gender-specific aspects of distribution of labor input in African agriculture and its implications for development strategies. In India, due to less skilled jobs, such as sowing, transplanting, weeding and harvesting, the typical work of the female agricultural laborer or cultivator is limited that often fit well within the framework of domestic life and child-rearing. Many women also participate in agricultural work as unpaid subsistence labor. According to United Nations Human Development Report only 32.8% of Indian women formally participate in the labor force, a rate that has remained steady since 2009 statistics. By comparison men constitute 81.1% (UNHDR 2011). The transplanting, drying of grains, cleaning of grains and processing were major farm activities which were completely done by farm women. Similar results were reported by Singh et.al. (2004). The farm operations including cleaning of field, raising nursery for Seedling,weeding, gap filling, picking, shifting production to threshing floor, winnowing storage & grading in which major amount of work done by farm women. They do more than half work of sowing, thinning, and manure application. The farm women do less than half work of irrigation, cutting and threshing operations.