 Recently, the Department of Commerce under Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India, has formulated the Agriculture Export Policy with the objectives of: (i) doubling agricultural exports from present ~US$ 30+ Billion to ~US$ 60+ Billion by 2022 and reaching US$ 100 Billion in the next few years thereafter, with a stable trade policy regime, (ii) diversifying our export basket, destinations and boosting high value and value added agricultural exports including focus on perishables, (iii) promoting novel, indigenous, organic, ethnic, traditional and non-traditional agri products exports, (iv) providing an institutional mechanism for pursuing Crop Graded tubers Indian Horticulture 68 market access, tackling barriers and deal with sanitary and phytosanitary issues, (v) striving to double India’s share in world agri exports by integrating with global value chain at the earliest, and (vi) enabling farmers to get benefit of export opportunities in overseas market. Potato has been identified as a potential commodity for export in the “Agriculture Export Policy” and the following states with cluster of districts have been identified for export promotion. State Districts Uttar Pradesh Agra, Farukkabad Punjab Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Navashehar Gujarat Banaskantha, SabarKantha Madhya Pradesh Indore, Gwalior The clusters have been identified based on the existing production contributing to exports, exporters operations, scalability of operations, size of export market / India’s share, awareness about SPS requirements, and potential for increase in export in short term. The list of clusters is tentative and can be expanded, provided the conditions for formation of cluster are met. The State Governments should evolve and put in place institutional mechanism for effective involvement and engagement of small and medium farmers for entire value chain as group enterprise(s) within cluster of villages at the block level. Exporting horticultural products requires significant volumes of high quality produce of the same variety with standard parameters matching import demands. Small landholding pattern and low farmer awareness in India has often meant limited volumes of different varieties of multiple crops with little or no standardization. Export oriented cluster development across states will be key to ensuring surplus produce with standard physical and quality parameters which meet export demands. The success of such a scheme will depend on State Government infrastructure. It is, therefore, critical that the Government of India encourage and incentivize the State Governments by strengthening State infrastructure to (i) identify suitable production clusters, (ii) conduct farmer registrations, (iii) digitization of land records, and (iv) promote Farmer Producer Organizations (FPO).