 However, the cranial and caudal boundaries of gall bladder were clearly visible at this stage. The liver and gall bladder of five months old goats were sonographically almost similar to those aged four months. In six months old goats, 2-D ultrasonography showed prominent hyper-echoic hepatic capsule surrounding the coarse parenchyma. Additionally, the anechoic gall bladder and hepatic and portal vessels were all distinct at this age. • Risks factors such as village demography, village level livestock population data and village level data were identified for the incidence of four major livestock diseases viz., Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD), Haemorrhagic septicaemia (HS), Black Quarters (BQ) and Peste des petits ruminants (PPR) for the development of risk maps using GIS technology. • A prototype software was developed for aquatic animal diseases surveillance. • With an aim to strengthen establishment of Veterinary and Animal Science Educational Museum at Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar, UP, approximately 1000 exhibits received or collected were restored/ renovated/ identified and displayed in the museum. These exhibits included rare veterinary literature, animal paintings, vintage scientific equipments, laboratory glasswares, animal driven carts, biological AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 112 specimens, animal harnesses and accessories, coins and postage stamps depicting animals and birds. Illustrated sunboard panels on the history of veterinary and animal science were prepared, printed and displayed. In addition, e-inventory, introductory folder and web page of the museum was prepared and published. Museum was made functional and visited by more than 2000 visitors including dignitaries of ICAR and other organizations. • Six species of high value marine finfishes viz. Gnathanodon speciosus, Lethrinus lentjan, Lutjanus argentimaculatus, Pristipomoides typus, Caranx heberi, C.sexfasciatus and C. gymnostethus were evaluated for reproductive parameters for captive broodstock development and breeding. Based on the reproductive parameters investi- gated the Golden trevally Gnathanodon speciosus was evaluated as a very good species for broodstock develop- ment, breeding and seed production for marine aquaculture. It is an excellent table fish which is in high demand in the domestic market and fetches `400/- to 500 per kg. • Extramural Research: This was launched during 2015-16 to sponsor and support short term result oriented extramural projects addressing acute and felt needs to enhance the quality of agricultural education on identified thrust areas. Thirty eight (38) New Extramural Research Projects on agricultural education were sanctioned during 2016-17.