 It is the second smallest state in terms of area after Goa and the least populous state of the country. The state shares international border with China, Nepal and Bhutan, and state boundary with West Bengal. The Kingdom of Sikkim was founded on the Silk Road by the Namgyal dynasty in the 17th century. The state is situated in the Eastern Himalayas spread below the world’s third highest mountain Kangchendzonga (8595m) lying between 27 0 04’ 46” to 28 0 07’ 48” north latitude and 88 0 55’ to 89 0 55’ 25” east longitude. To its north lies the vast stretches of Tibetan plateau 24 Sikkim 478 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 of the People’s Republic of China, to its west is Nepal, Bhutan and China in the East and West Bengal in South. Sikkim has a diverse climate. It is predominantly wet and moist almost throughout the year with average annual rainfall of 2000 mm to 5000 mm. The mean temperature in the lower altitudinal zone varies from 5oC to 15oC during winter and 18oC to 28oC during the summer months. In the higher reaches, the average temperature never crosses 15oC. Maximum temperature is recorded during July / August and minimum during December / January. The cropping pattern of the State over the years has transformed from cereal dominated subsistence agriculture to high value, cash crop dominated commercial agriculture. Eighty percent of the population lives in rural Sikkim. The total cultivable land in the state is around 75,000 hectares. Agriculture in the State of Sikkim is practiced under diverse conditions. The principal crops of the state are maize, rice, large cardamom. 24.1 Major Constraints Rice Less area under high yielding/hybrid rice Popularization of System of Rice Intensification (SRI) and Direct Seeded Rice (DSR) technologies Breeding of varieties responsive to low input and organic cultivation Improvement of local genotypes/landraces which are adaptable and preferred by the people of Sikkim Maize Less area under high yielding/hybrid varieties. The local land races are not yield much due to open pollination. Maize is directly sown in field by broadcasting. The raised bed planting would be beneficial for controlling diseases due to high rainfall Breeding of varieties/hybrids responsive to low input and organic cultivation Improvement of local genotypes/landraces which are adaptable and preferred by the people of Sikkim Bio-agents for seed treatment to control seed and soil borne diseases. Wheat Wheat is an irrigated crop grown during rabi crop. Not much attention is required for this crop as it is high input requiring crop and unsuitable for hills due to high cost of production.