 • All farm implements must be used clean and grazing movement of cattle should be avoided from field-to-field. Curative methods The second approach in IWM is curative where emphasis is given to remove, smother or kill the weeds from further multiplication. It can be done by various methods described below. Mechanical method Mechanical weeding is the process of utilizing mechanical tools and equipment to physically eliminate or disrupt weeds in agricultural fields. This approach involves the use of implements like hand hoe/ khurpi, cultivators, harrows, rotary hoes, or specialized machinery specifically designed for weeding. These tools are employed to target and uproot weeds, primarily in the spaces between crop rows, with the aim of minimizing any potential harm to the cultivated plants. Hand weeding using hand hoe/khurpi and inter-row cultivation are commonly followed in maize. • Hand weeding: Two hand weeding at 20-30 DAS or 30-45 DAS effectively minimizes weed population. However, manual weeding is uneconomical due to steep rise in wedges which involves also lot of drudgery work. • Inter-row cultivation: At the Knee-high stage of maize crop (approximately 30 days after sowing), weed control can be achieved by the use of cultivator or blade harrow in the inter-row spaces of the crop. Mechanical interventions should be avoided after the knee-high stage of the maize crop, as it can cause damage to the leaves. Mechanical weeding indeed offers the advantage of root aeration, but the persistent rainfall during the kharif season poses a significant challenge as it saturates the soil, and sometimes delays intercultural operation in the field. Cultural method The cultural method of weed control encompasses a range of agronomic practices designed to manage weeds effectively. These Fig. 2. Weed control in maize by mechanical inter-culture operations. Biological method Cultural method IWM Chemical method Physical method Preventive method Indian Farming 26 October 2023 practices include legume inclusion, crop rotation, fertilizer and irrigation management, optimum sowing time, stale seed bed technique etc. • Legume inclusion: Smother crop like soybean, mungbean, groundnut, cowpea sown as intercrop with maize significantly reduces weed density in maize. In addition, legumes are also beneficial as it add or transfer nitrogen to associated crop. • Fertilizer application: Placement of fertilizers promotes vigorous growth of maize crop which can compete with weeds. Certain weeds, like lambsquarters, pigweeds, and quack grass, exhibit heightened growth and competitiveness in the presence of soluble nitrogen (N), particularly when the crop receives all its N fertilizer in a readily-available form during planting.