, Venkataramannagudem, Narayanapuram, Tadepalligduem, Eluru, Dwarka, Tirumula, Akivedu, Bhimavaram, Tanuku, Dubcherla e The farmer is earning a net income of %12,00,000 per year Future plan of action: To increase his bee colonies to 2000 and to establish some more Indian Farming March 2024 Indian Farming 70 March 2024 demonstrations and exposure visits organized by the KVK, West Godavari (V R Gudem). The apiary-based entrepreneurship activity ensured an average additional net income of additional income @ `19,000 per year to each tribal family. The existing apiary units can be further scaled up through the division of bee colonies and the success thus has come to stay. Support in terms of feeding, protection from ants and termites as well as making availability of comb foundation sheets are to be provided to these beekeepers for strengthening the activity. The apiary unit established at the KVK was strengthened from 13 bee hive colonies to 120 and honey (on an average 700 kg per month) and bee colonies are sold to farmers and aspiring bee farmers. KVK, Venkataramannagudem in collaboration with ITDA, K R Puram formed 9 individual cluster groups of bee keepers covering 11 villages and these individual cluster groups in turn formed an association of honey producers with the name 'Giridhara Honey Producers Society ' in ITDA, K R Puram for production, marketing of honey and strengthening of bee keeping. Branding of the product and FSSAI registration has been completed. Beekeeping was proven to be an alternative livelihood option with potential of providing alternative income security to smallholder tribal farmers living in forest area of Dantewada district of Chattisgarh. Of the 500 beneficiaries of 16 villages who were taken as a unit for analysis to check the enhancement of farmer’s income annually, 470 beneficiaries were found highly benefitted by bee keeping which brought tangible change in their living standards. In a study by the scientist of the KVK (West Godavari), it was observed that age, education, social participation, economic orientation, market orientation, extension participation and knowledge level were positively and significantly associated with extent of adoption of apiary technology for income generation. SUMMARY Apiary has been established through training and demonstration as a viable and sustainable source of income to tribal farmers of west Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh. The KVK, West Godavari ensured the success of this entrepreneurial activity through continued hand holding, timely advisory and establishment of market channels. Skills related to multiplication of bee colonies, preparation of bee boxes, extraction and packing of byproducts like propolis, bee wax, royal jelly would further strengthen and diversify the apiary enterprise. There is an ample scope for encouraging production of organic honey in interior tribal areas where there is minimal use of chemical inputs in agriculture and horticulture.