 Some popular annonas are the true custard apple, or bullock’s heart or Ramphal (A. reticulata Linn.), the sugar apple or sweetsop or Sitaphal or Custard apple (A. squamosa Linn.) and the cherimoya (A. cherimola Mill.). The tree is low- branching and bushy but slender because of its upturned limbs, and reaches a maximum of 7.5-9 m in height. Young branchlets are rusty-hairy. The leaves, normally evergreen, are alternate, smooth, glossy, dark-green on the upper surface, lighter beneath; oblong, elliptic or narrow- obovate, pointed at both ends and highly aromatic when crushed. The flowers, which are borne singly, may emerge anywhere on the trunk, branches or twigs. They are short- stalked, 4 to 5 cm long, plump, and triangular-conical, the three fleshy, slightly spreading, outer petals yellow-green, the three close-set inner petals pale-yellow. Soursops are more or less oval or heart-shaped, sometimes irregular, lopsided or curved due to improper carpel development or insect injury. They range in size from 10-30 cm long and up to 15 cm in width, weight ranges from 0.3 kg up to 6 kg compound and covered with a reticulated, leathery-appearing but tender, inedible, bitter skin from which protrude few or many stubby, or more elongated and curved, soft, pliable “spines”. The tips break off easily when the fruit is fully ripe. The skin of the immature fruit Soursop tree March–April 2021 33 is usually dark-green, becoming slightly yellowish-green before the fruit is soft to the touch. The inner surface of the skin is granular and separates easily from the mass of snow-white, fibrous, juicy segments-much like flakes of raw fish-surrounding the central, soft-pithy core. In aroma, the fruit is somewhat pineapple-like, but its musky, sub- acid to acid flavor is unique. Most of the closely-packed segments are seedless. In each fertile segment there is a single oval, smooth, hard, black seed, 1.25 to 2 cm long; and a large fruit may contain a few dozen to 200 or more seeds. The fruit consists of about 67.5% edible white pulp with a pleasing fragrance and flavor. It is a good source of vitamins B and C with some calcium and phosphorus. Food and medicinal uses It has numerous uses. The young green fruits with seeds that are still soft can be cooked as vegetable. When ripe, the flesh can be eaten off hand or as dessert, or processed into candies, jams and jelly. Its juice is used for flavoring or packaged into refreshing guyabano drinks. The leaves are used as herbal medicine. Because the tree is small and tolerant of partial shade, it can be intercropped with coconut or with large fruit trees like mango, durian, avocado and jackfruit. Soursop leaf contains annonaceous acetogenins which exhibited significant inhibitory effects against six human cancer cell lines: lung, breast, colon, pancreatic and kidney carcinoma.