 DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 141 ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 142 ADMINISTRATION Filling up of posts During the year, the following posts were filled up under the promotion quota—Director (Special Duty) of Joint Secretary level on two occasions, four Director/ Joint Director cum Registrars, four Director (F)/ Comptrollers, five Deputy Directors (F)/Chief Finance & Account Officers, one Deputy-Secretary & four Chief Administrative Officers, one Senior Finance & Account Officer, three Under-Secretaries, nine Senior Administrative Officers, two Deputy Directors (OL), ten Administrative Officers, one Finance & Accounts Officers. Besides, four posts of Section Officer, five LDCs, three UDCs, and four Assistants were also filled up by promotion at the ICAR Hqrs. Financial upgradation granted under MACP Scheme During the year, 44 eligible officers and staff of ICAR (Hqrs.) and Institutes were granted the benefits of financial up-gradation under the Modified Assured Career Progression scheme in accordance with the Government of India (Department of Personal and Training) instructions in this regard. Policy initiatives 1. A formal comprehensive inter-institutional transfer policy for the officers of the combined carder of Administrative Officers and Finances & Accounts Officers has also been framed, circulated and implemented during the year through a specially designed ‘Online’ portal. This was done to ensure transparency in the process of transfer/ posting. 2. Review of the post of SSS in ICAR was undertaken and a policy is this regard has been framed and circulated on 07.03.2019. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT IP protection and grant of titles Patents: ICAR assessed its 129 patent applications, viz. filed (41), published (50) and granted (38) by 39 institutes. The cumulative figure of filed patent applications is 1,119 and granted is 297. The applications granted during the period of report were classified by IPO as mentioned below: Copyrights: Research outcomes, including data entry softwares, books, research reports and other creative activities were protected under copyright act. A total of 206 filed copyrights have been thus recorded from different ICAR institutes. Designs: Five applications were filed by CIAH, Bikaner; CRIJAF, Kolkata; and CPRI, Simla. These included: (i) Packaging boxes for ber; (ii) Jute Ribboner; and (iii) Jute Seeder, (iv) Design of spade, (v) Design of weeder; 31 filed design applications were recorded from 7 ICAR institutes. Trademarks: Sixteen trademark applications were filed by 10 ICAR institutes for different products and processes, viz. CIFA Brood, CIFRI GI Cage, CIFRI Pen HDPE, Ciflin, etc. Till date, 131 trademark applications have been filed by 27 ICAR institutes, out of that 30 applications were registered.