 Groundwater potential zones were generated by integrating nine thematic maps namely, drainage density, slope, geology, geomorphology, soil texture, lineament, rainfall, groundwater fluctuation, and land use/land cover using remote sensing and GIS techniques. The groundwater potential zones were categorized as ‘low’, ‘low to medium’, ‘medium to high’, and ‘high’ and mapped. It was observed that a major part (42.72%) of the catchment was under the ‘low to medium’ potential zone, 20.27% area under the ‘medium to high’ category, 19.18% area under the ‘high’ potential zone and only Ecological restoration of Kota stone mine spoil Performance of 6.5 years old four tree species at Kota stone mine spoil site was evaluated in Ramganjmandi, Kota. Amongst four trees species, viz. Acacia nilotica (Desi babool), Inga dulce (Jungle jalebi), Pongamia pinnata (Karanj) and Syzygium cuminii (Jamun) planted in the mine spoil areas of Rajasthan, with two different pitting size and four rooting media treatments, the survival rate was in the of order of A. nilotica (98%) >Inga dulce (94.2%) >P. pinnata (90%) >S. cuminii (69%).The identified tree species are highly suitable for enduring multiple benefits at Kota stone mine spoil site. Performance of different tree species at Kota stone mine spoil areas at Ramganjmandi, Rajasthan 17.81% area under ‘low’ groundwater potential zone. Suitable sites were identified for rainwater harvesting and groundwater recharge in the ‘low’ and ‘low to medium’ groundwater potential zones in the catchment. Sites were identified for the construction of 36 percolation tanks, 39 check dams, and 21 farm ponds. Organic fertigation system: An organic fertigation unit was developed for use of cowdung and vermicompost filtrates as a nutrient source for crops. A power-operated agitator was also fabricated for the organic fertigation unit for large-scale vegetable cultivation. The proportion of manure and water, duration of agitation, and settling time of manure solution were optimized to improve the nutrient content of supernatant and filtrate using the power-operated agitator. Vermicompost filtrate prepared by mixing vermicompost and water in a ratio of 1:5 icar annual report 2022-23 123 followed by agitation for 10 min and settling for 6 hr showed increased nutrient content (K, P, Ca and Mg) in the filtrate. It was recommended that organic manure filtrate along with a 50% recommended dose of fertilizer should be applied to get a higher yield of okra and improve the nutrient and microbial status of the soil. CS 61 and CS 62 mustard: Two salt- tolerant mustard varieties CS 61 and CS 62 were recommended by Uttar Pradesh SVRC during 2022 for sodic soils.