 Technology transfer through empanelled private firms: The developed equipments are made available to the needy clients on payment basis through selected empanelled manufacturing agencies. The agencies are selected by inviting expression of interest and subsequently conducting a due- diligence study. B2B and B2C Meets: Business- to-Business and Business-to- Customers meets are held at regular intervals to connect new clients to market, industry and empanelled firms. Two-way communication is facilitated among (i) the empanelled/ licensed manufacturing agency and clients seeking institute technology; (ii) Sellers like graduated entrepreneurs and incubates with buyers, both wholesale/retail and national/international. SUMMARY Fisheries is sunshine sector of food production providing nutritional security, livelihood support and gainful employment to millions of people. Entrepreneurship is an important tool for promoting this sector and improving the economic development of a country. In this context the role of business incubators that supports the creation and growth of business through organizational and technical assistance, which at the same time contributes to the reduction of entrepreneurial failure, assumes great importance. The ZTM-ABI Centre operational at ICAR-CIFT manages technologies/ innovations, assists the entrepreneurs in seizing new business opportunities, and thus become key players in the growth of industries in fisheries and food processing sector. Corresponding author’s e-mail: directorcift@gmail.com. 3. Regulatory, compliance and standards support • Training in quality regulations and related aspects • On-site inspections and formulate remedial measures • Provides assistance to secure regulatory and standards certifications 4. Infrastructure and production unit • State-of-the- art pilot level production facility • Well-furnished office space at prime business location 5. Training and skill development 6. Product development and testing 7. Formulation of company policies 8. Setting up of new facilities and up-scaling Joint development with student/ young entrepreneurs: In this approach, student entrepreneurs, young innovators and start-ups are encouraged to work with institute scientists and develop new products and technologies out of innovative ideas. The non-official innovators can use all equipments and other facilities for carrying out their research. Once a new technology is developed, it will be further validated, tested and commercialized. If patentable, joint patent applications will be filed. Exhibition and selling platform for clients: The graduated entrepreneurs are allowed to showcase and sell their products in manner. This is mainly due to the constraints with respect to the economics of scale, precision in process/protocols, management of big scale/sophisticated machineries and instruments, HR management etc.