 Field Sanitation: Where the field is already infested, the best way to minimize the disease is to adopt the following agronomic practices: Crop rotation: Follow 2-3 years’ crop rotation using crops like maize, cereals, garlic, onion, cabbage and sanai. Do not rotate vegetables like brinjal, ginger, chillies and other solanaceous crops. Paddy and sugarcane although Symptoms of bacterial wilt a. brown discolouration of stem tissues b. bacterial streaming in clear water from stem cut section of potato c. infected with R. solanacearum Vascular browning of tubers (left) and emergence of bacterial mass through eye due to R. solanacearum (right) November–December 2019 39 typical complex, diverse and risks prone areas. It is characterised by mild summer, profuse vegetation and maximum temperature range of 26-30°C. Winter temperature may go as low as 3-6°C. Many weed hosts can provide perpetual niche for colonisation and survival. The use of disease free seed plus application of stable bleaching powder @ 12 kg/ha mixed with fertiliser at planting, ploughing the field in September- October and exposing the soil to winter temperature are adequate for disease control. The application of bleaching powder can be substituted by 2 year crop rotation with crops like wheat, barley, finger millet, cabbage, cauliflower, knol- khol, carrot, onion, garlic etc. Early planting and early harvesting are also recommended. Zone III: Eastern plains and Deccan plateau. Here crop is cultivated as short day crop during winter months (October-March). Day temperature sometimes reaches to 38°C. Heavy precipitation occurs due to western disturbances. The area is relatively rich in vegetation. Eastern plains and Deccan plateau have many symptomless carriers of the pathogen. Therefore, management of the disease is most difficult. However, the disease can be kept under check with practices like use of disease free seed, application of bleaching powder, blind earthing-up and ploughing in March and leaving the soil exposed to summer temperatures during April- May and crop rotations along with clean cultivation. Zone IV: North-western high hills above 2200 masl (excluding Kumaon hills). This zone has a temperate climate with severe winters; daily temperature range from –10 to 5°C during December–January. Snow is common during these months. Bacterial wilt is not endemic and the use of disease free seed alone is adequate. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Vijay Sagar Dr Vijay Sagar Dr Vijay Sagar Dr Vijay Sagar Dr Vijay Sagar (Principal Scientist), ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla, Himachal Pradesh, India. Email: vsagar.cpri@gmail.com are not host, still they carry pathogen and contribute to the disease perpetuation. Avoid tillage operations: Pathogen enters in plants through root or stolen injuries. Such injuries cannot be avoided during intercultural operations.