 The treated soil was left for 60 days before seed sowing to decompose and allow nutrient release. Upon analysis of the soil samples, the researchers observed that they exhibited alkalinity, with a pH of 8.98, and key nutrients such as nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, and calcium at 0.08%, 18 ppm, 88 ppm, and 4 meq/L, respectively, as seen in Table 3. Unlike El Barnossi et al. [61], who reported the germination rate and the number of days to germination, Wazir et al. [62] only reported the time it took for the seeds to germinate. It was found that for the potato and pea to germinate it took 7.75 and 4 days, respectively. In terms of plant height, rapid growth was observed after 60 days since the minerals were released slowly during the growth Agriculture 2024, 14, 1894 7 of 24 process. Compared with the other organic fertilizers the researchers studied, the shortest period of germination was obtained from BPs. The authors attribute this to the presence of phosphorus and calcium in the BPs, which play a significant role in seed germination, viability, and the early maturation of plants. Other growth parameters, such as leaf and branch number, were significantly enhanced compared with the control. The same trend was observed for both plants’ yield parameters, such as pod length, tuber weight, etc. Used tea waste was shown to perform better than other organic waste materials. Therefore, composite fertilizer comprising BPs and tea waste has a high potential to enhance crops’ growth and yield parameters. 3.1.2. Dried Banana Peel-Based Fertilizers In a quest to determine the impact of dried BPs on the growth of fenugreek plants, Mercy et al. [63] prepared and applied six fertilizer formulations. The formulations were grouped into two methods: powder extracts and powders. The peels were cut into small pieces, air-dried in sunlight for 20 days, ground, and sieved. The powder extracts were prepared by dissolving 1 g, 3 g, and 6 g of BP powder in 100 mL, 300 mL, and 600 mL of distilled water, respectively. The mixtures were stirred for three days using a magnetic stirrer. For the powder method, formulations 1, 2, and 3 contained 1 g, 3 g, and 6 g of the BP powder, respectively. Each formulation had three replications, and a control was maintained for 15 days. After this period, 100 fenugreek seeds were sown and irrigated daily. The authors measured plant height 45 days after inoculation; the study revealed that the plant height was higher for the powder extract. The crops were produced quicker using both methods, with a larger number of fenugreek vegetables produced than in the control soil. Formulation 1 was found to be the most suitable fertilizer for both methods. This formulation was tested on different crops (rice, mustard, and rye) and improved growth was observed in all the test plants compared to the control.