 More importantly, efforts must be made to collect, conserve and utilize the largely eroding genetic resources and promote awareness among the local people, particularly the young generation, of its existence thus, enhancing its utilization. The establishment of an enabling policy and financial assistance by government agencies and support of non-governmental organizations will be critical to push forward research and development efforts. Yet, the nutritional potential of this legume demands such efforts. There is no doubt that renewed research efforts will thrust winged bean forward and transform this orphan legume crop into one of worldwide impact. For further interaction, please write to: P K Singh (Principal Scientist), Center for Protected Cultivation Technology, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012. *Corresponding author’s email: pksingh128@ gmail.com Indian Horticulture 20 calcium, magnesium, potassium, sodium and selenium. Leaf of T. procumbens mainly contains crude proteins 26%, crude fibre 17% soluble, carbohydrates 39%, calcium oxide 5%. Quercetin, isoquercetin, luteolin, and glucoluteolin have been reported from its flowers. Oleanolic acid was obtained in good amounts from T. procumbens and found to be a potential antidiabetic agent when tested against aglucosidase. T. procumbens can be used as a prospective source of provitamin A (carotenoid). Medicinal properties Each and every part of T. procumbens is useful, having pharmacological properties. The plant product over synthetic compound is the need in the treatment of diseases as it does not have any deleterious effect on higher animals including humans. India is home to a variety of traditional medicinal systems that rely to a very large extent on native plant species for their raw drug material. The work done till date on various pharmacological activities like wound healing activity, antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory, hepatoprotective effect, immunomodulating property, antidiabetic, and antioxidant, bronchial catarrh, diarrhea, dysentery and hair treatment give immense importance to the herb. The qualitative analysis revealed the presence of the biomolecules such as flavonoids, tannins, phenolic compounds, anthraquinone, catachol, saponins, steroids, and terpenoids. Summary Tridax procumbens is found throughout India and have various pharmacological active compounds which allow its use as folk medicine in variety of ailments. It has been widely used in the Ayurveda due to the presence of medicinal properties for wound healing, malaria, diarrhea, dysentery, bronchial catarrh, stomach-ache and reducing blood pressure. It also prevents hair loss and haemorrhage from cuts and bruises. Its flowers and leaves possess antiseptic, insecticidal and parasiticidal properties. T. procumbens also shows various pharmacological activities.