 Gandhiji’s vision of “sarvodaya” implies a healthy development/ management of natural resources and environment by a man to ensure his harmonious existence with nature and other living beings. Gandhi ji did not recognize separate rules for separate spheres of human life, but saw all spheres in an integrated manner which is being referred today as eco-friendly measures of protecting the nature. Gandhiji stated that “Forces of nature act in a mysterious manner. We can but solve the mystery by deducing the unknown result from known results of similar events”. Realizing ethos of Mahatma about natural resources in meeting the basic needs, the ICAR created a Natural Resource Management Division. 3. ICAR’s Activities in Realizing Gandhian Principles 3.1. Maintaining Soil Health and Productivity Soil management is extremely important for sustaining healthy life on earth. According to Vedas “upon this handful of soil our survival depends care for it, and it will care for your food, the fuel that you need, that will shelter you and surround you with beauty. Abuse it and the soil will collapse and die, taking us all with it”. The primary cause of deteriorating human/animal health is actually the poor health of soil. Only a healthy soil can support healthy plant growth to provide nutritious food as quantity and quality of agricultural produce is directly linked to soil quality. Soil test based balanced and integrated nutrient management through conjunctive use of both inorganic and organic sources (manure, biofertilizers, etc.) of plant nutrients are the ideal solution to improve soil health and quality. ICAR-IISS has developed a portable soil test kit/mini lab (Mridaparikshak) to provide soil-testing service at farmers door step. The kit 77 is capable of measuring all the twelve parameters prescribed under “National Mission on Soil Health Card”. The Kit is useful for rapid analysis of soil samples for generating soil health cards along with the fertilizer recommendations, monitoring of soil fertility and preparation of geo-referenced soil fertility maps at block/village level. 3.2. Desilting of Tanks Droughts and floods are recurring features in rainfed areas affecting agricultural production. By storing excess runoff water during monsoon season, the water harvesting tanks help to mitigate water scarcity problem during non-monsoon period, moderates the flood risks during monsoon season, and improves groundwater recharge (Sikka et al. 2018). Thus, these water harvesting are eco- and farmers-friendly water bodies, and multi-functionality of these tanks is well documented (CRIDA 2006; DHAN 2004 and Osman et al. 2001). The strategy of desilting and its recycling will not only rejuvenate tanks with increasing/ regaining the surface water storage but also improve groundwater recharge (Sikka et al. 2018), besides improving the soil properties in a cost-effective manner.