 Further applications of these compounds lead to the development of an array of nutraceutical, nutritional and anti-bacterial formulations. This booklet is an attempt to present the specific technological profile of the seaweed-based products borne out of the research efforts carried out by ICAR- CMFRI and ICAR-CIFT. Harvested seaweed rope Representative images of brown seaweed Sargassum wightii collected from the Palk Bay region of Mandapam, Tamil Nadu 2 3 Cadalmin® GAe About the product l Cadalmin® GAe is an anti-arthritic nutra- ceutical; combats joint pain and arthritis. l Contains 100% natural marine bioactive ingredients extracted from selected brown seaweeds, viz., Turbinaria ornata and Turbinaria conoides. l The bioactive ingredients in Cadalmin® GAe competitively inhibit pro-inflammatory cyclooxygenase-2 and lipoxygenase. l Decreases production of inflammatory prostaglandins and leukotrienes, thereby hindering the occurrence of inflamma- tory pain and arthritis. l The efficacy of the product was tested and compared with that of standard drugs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) through animal test models. l It has no side effects as proved from the preclinical and acute/long-term chronic toxicity studies. l Unique biochemical engineering techniques are adopted which assure higher shelf-life. l The active ingredients are purified and concentrated and packed in plant-based capsules to meet the dietary needs of vegetarians. Each capsule contains 350 mg of active ingredients. Commercialization and availability l It is a patented technology of ICAR- CMFRI, Kochi; commercialized in 2020 to the Pioneer Pharmaceuticals Limited (a Pharmaceutical Company) in Kochi, Kerala, India. l The product is marketed as Green Algal Extract (GAe) 1. Cadalmin® GAe – Antiarthritic Nutraceutical Compiled by: Kajal Chakraborty, P. Vijayagopal and Shinoj Parappurathu Further Information: Director, ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Kochi, Kerala. Phone: +91-484-2394798 Email: director.cmfri@icar.gov.in; Website: www.cmfri.org.in Turbinaria ornata Turbinaria conoides 4 Cadalmin®ADe About the product l Cadalmin® ADe is an anti-diabetic nutra- ceutical; combats type-2 diabetes. l Contains 100% natural marine bioactive ingredients extracted from selected brown seaweeds, viz., Sargassum wightii and Turbinaria ornata. l The bioactive ingredients in Cadalmin® ADe competitively inhibit dipeptidyl peptidase-IV and tyrosine phosphatase 1B. l Decreases production of various mediators responsible for inducing type-2 diabetes, and interferes with the release of simple sugars from the gut. This further reduces postprandial hyperglycemia, thereby hindering the occurrence of type-2 diabetes. l The efficacy of the product was compared with that of a standard drug (glibencla- mide) through animal test models. l Detailed preclinical and acute/long-term chronic toxicity studies revealed no side- effects.