 • Irrespective of the sources of phosphorus, 40 kg P20Slha produced higher grain yield (17.34%) than 20 k P20 siha in mungbean. • Intercropping of sorghum with mungbean and pigeonpea with urdbean produced highest respective equivalent yields (6065 kg/ha and 970 kg/ha). 2/3 rd dose of fertilizer saved in mungbean and urdbean. • Combined application ofNPKS + 10 kg Borax/ha produced higher yield by 49.22 per cent. NPKS + Molybdate @ 2 kg/ha (48.33%) and NPKS + ZnS04 produced 41.43 per cent higher yields than NPKS alone application. • Higher plant density of 4 lakh planslha proved superior to 3.3 lakh planting density of mungbean. • Mungbean Strain CRM 6 was found superior under testing across the centers for consecutive four years. • Under late planted (August sown), application ofN @ 20 kg/ha as basal + 10 kg N as foliar proved beneficial and resulted into higher into higher yield at higher planting densities (4 lakh & 5 lakh per ha) in mungbean. • The multilocation testing of rhizobium strains revealed that strain CRM 6 (check) recorded the highest yield followed by PMR 2001 strain in mungbean. • Ridge planting of mungbean increased the yield by 20% over flat planning. www.icar.org.in 58 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Crop Science Rajmash • Two sprays of 2% urea at pre‐flowering and pod development stages increased the yield significantly in raj mash. Fieldpea 3. Crop Protection Lentil • Lentil genotypes PL 01 and PL 02 showed multiple disease resistance to rust, wilt, stem rot and ascochyta blight. Urdbean • Seed treatment with thiomethoxam (2gm/kg seed) followed by foliar spray of triazophos (0.04%) or Lambda cyhalothrin spray (0.04%) alone found highly effective against stemfly, whitefly and pod borer damage in urdbean. • Treatments with NSKE + karate and NSKE + Dichlorovos gave maximum control against pest in urdbean. • Urdbean entries OBG 19, TU 99‐843 were recorded tolerant to both the species of root ‐ knot nematode, M. incognita and M. javanica. • Urdbean line KU 96‐3 was found to show broad ‐ based resistance to YMV. • TPU 4 was found resistant to both the species of root ‐ knot nematode Meloidogyne incognita and M. javanica. • Foliar spray of Lambdacyhalohrin, thiodicarb (0.04%) and heir half dose in combination with NSKE 5% proved highly effective against Maruca damage in rabi urdbean. Mungbean • Intercropping of sorghum, finger millet or maize intercropping in mungbean (1 :2) lowered CLS and leaf curl disease. • Seed treatment with neem seed kernel powder, neem oil, mahua oil, karanj oil gave minimum seed damage due to bruchid in mungbean. • Mungbean HUM 7 was found resistant of both the species of the root – knot nematodes, Meloidogyne incognita and M. javanica. • Mungbean ML 131 was recorded tolerant to three nematode species M. incognita, M. javanica and Rotylenchulus reniformis. • Neem product, Numbicidine @ 0.03% was found effective in managing root – knot nematode population infesting mungbean. www.icar.org.