 The pooled results on the farmers' fields showed th where was no significant difference with regard to field capacity and draft between the indigenous pingali dhanti, blade harrow and its combination with hand-weeding (Table 3). The use of pingali dhanti for interculture operation enhanced the productivity and net income (Rs 583/ha) compared with the interculture with traditional blade harrow (21.74 q/ha). Interculture with pingali dhanti along with hand-weeding gave 47% increase in net income over the blade harrow with hand-weeding (Rs 2,303/ha). To overcome the operational difficulties, the implements were operated 15 and 45 days after transplanting of tomato crop in 2002-03, and 15, 45 and be d 45 days in 2003-04 and 2004. Operation of pingali dhanti along with hand weeding showed higher weeding efficiency (89.53%) over interculture with pingali dhanti alone (65%). There was variation between two interculture implements in respect of weeding efficiency and energy expenditure for interculture operations (Table 3). To verify the feasibility of use of pingali dhanti for more number of times, the implements were operated in the crop beyond 45 days after transplanting. The edges of blade harrow caused damage to the standing crop with combing action, due to which the farmers were reluctant to use the implement beyond 45 days. But pingali dhanti Fig. 2. Pingali dhanti in operation in a farmer's field Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Contents FARM IMPLEMENTS facilitated 1-2 times extra operations depending upon the intensity of crop growth. The perception of the farmers regarding the performance of pingali dhanti was also collected from the group of farmers while operating the implement in the farmers' fields. The conclusions derived from the focus group interactions are: pingali dhanti has an edge over traditional blade harrow in terms of coverage, extended period of operation during the crop-growth period and efficacy in controlling weeds, ease in handling, cost effectiveness, durability and replicability of the implement. However, blade harrow has edge over indigenous tool in terms of cost, availability and ease in fabrication. CONCLUSION Use of pingal dhanti alongwith hand weeding enhanced profitability (47.1), weeding efficiency (24.53%) in rainfed tomato compared to the traditional blade harrow. It facilitated to control weeds effectively beyond 45 days after transplanting. Farmers perceived that pingali dhanti has an edge over traditional blade harrow in terms of coverage, extended period of operation during crop growth period efficiency in controlling weeds and ease in handling.