 India has gathered successful and enriching experiences with several IT projects. Mobile telephone is the most influential and omnipresent tool of agriculture extension to disseminate information and to give advisories to farmers. Push and Pull SMS, Interactive voice response system (IVRS), mKisan and Kisan Call Centres (KCC) are the mobile telephony initiatives to cater to the diverse need of farmers and information dissemination. To harness the potential of mobile telephony under National e-Governance Plan-Agriculture (NeGP-A), Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare has launched various modes of delivery of e-enabled services including mobile telephony. Advances of digitalization in Indian agriculture Mobile based apps The number of mobile apps providing accurate and timely information to the agriculture sector is Indian Farming 73 (06): 38-42; June 2023 increasing. Today mobile applications are available for smart agriculture zones, latest agriculture information like identification of pests and diseases, real-time data about weather, early warning about storms, best local market prices, seeds, fertilizers etc. information to farmers at their doorstep. There are several important mobile apps developed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India and other organisations which are using Geographic Information System (GIS) and Data Analytics of Smart Agriculture to deliver accurate information to the farmers at their doorstep. Some important and widely used mobile apps are as follows: • Kisan Suvidha: It is an all-encompassing mobile app developed to help farmers by providing relevant information. App provides information to farmers about weather, market price, dealers, plant protection, IPM, seeds, expert advice, soil health card, godown and cold storage provides information. • Pusa Krishi: This mobile app has been launched to take the technologies developed by the institute of Indian Agricultural Research Institute to the farmers’ fields. It contains information related to new varieties of crops developed, detailed knowledge of agricultural machinery and its implementation and production technologies. • Soil Health Card Mobile App: This application Indian Farming 39 June 2023 provides easy access to the soil test reports given by the farmers to them. Using Smart Agriculture’s global positioning technology, it captures the exact location and soil quality of the farmer’s field. • Bhuvan Hailstorm App: Through this mobile app, the data of damage caused to the farm due to hailstorm is recorded along with photographs and geographical location, which simplifies the process of giving insurance to the farmer by assessing the loss due to hailstorm. Data analytics of smart agriculture is used by this mobile. • e-NAM Mobile App: The objective of the mobile app is to make available the crop price to the farmers and other stakeholders at the right time on their smart phones by the traders/mandis.