 All the knock down birds of first generation for both ACACA and SREBP1 genes were females, which were used further as female parents for back crossing with control broiler birds as male parents to produce back cross progenies. Finally, two positive knock down chicks, where shRNA constructs were detected, were hatched. Fish Description of new fish species • A new species of snake eel, Xyrias anjaalai sp. nov. (Anguilliformes: Ophichthidae) was described from morphological analysis of 12 specimens and molecular analysis of four specimens, caught off Kollam, Kerala, South- Western India by deep-sea trawling. The specimens were obtained from the bycatch of deep-sea shrimp trawlers operating at a depth of approximately 290 to 347 m off Kollam. Cryo-bank established for primary somatic cells of elite buffaloes In view of the importance of buffalo breeds, a somatic cells bio-bank was established at ICAR-CIRB, Hisar. The bank maintains finite somatic cell lines derived from tail-skin biopsies of 26 elite male and female buffaloes of three breeds including cloned animal somatic cells. The informative data such as buffalo details (breed, date of birth, sex, and age at the time of tissue biopsy collection, and production traits), the number of cryovials stored, and freezing dates were recorded in an electronic file and a printed inventory record. Cryopreserved 1,350 cryovials (0.1 million cells per vial) from Murrah and Nili-Ravi for future applications. (a) Badis kaladanensis, holotype, ZSI FF 5404, 48.6 mm SL; (b) Paratype, PUCMF 15002, 45.2 mm SL. • Badis kaladanensis, a new percoid fish (Teleostei: Badidae), was recorded and described from the Kaladan basin of Mizoram state of Northeast India. The species is distinguished from its GENETIC RESOURCES ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 34 congeners with respect to the combinations of morphological characters. The analyses of mitochondrial genes, viz. cytochrome c oxidase I (COI) and cytochrome b (cyt b) revealed the distinctness of the species from other Badis species (interspecific distance ranged from 5.4– 20.4% for COI and 5.1–26.3% for cyt b. The species is registered in ZooBank, the official registry of Zoological Nomenclature, and got the following Life Science Identifiers (LSIDs) urn:lsid: zoobank.org:act:4D86FCA2-EEEB- 43A1-B20F-A0C2884D96D6. Type specimens were submitted to the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI). Identification of hub genes in Catla catla: A total of 1,677 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in three different growth stages of C. catla through transcriptome analysis. Fourteen differential expressed regulatory hub genes for growth were also identified for the first time. These regulatory genes are involved in myofibril assembly, morphogenesis, skeletal muscle tissue and organ development, unfolded protein binding, ribosome biogenesis, rRNA processing and metabolic process.