 Deorighat, Jadeog, Batog, Nelaha, Tikkar and Baloa, were interviewed through a questionnaire. Experiment Field trials were conducted at experimental field of Mountain Research and Development Associates (MRDA) in village Gawai, tehsil Theog, dist. Shimla, during 2002. Different concentrations of cattle (cow, buffalo, sheep) urine and cowdung ash were used against the cabbage aphid (Brevicoryne brassicae). The effects of urine and ash were studied separately. The first application of urine and ash was done when the cabbage plants were at 4-5 leaf stage. Second spray was done after 2 weeks following the first spray. Cattle urine was used both fresh and aged. Aging of urine was done by keeping it in airtight earthen container for 10 days. Different plots were used for each treatment, where each plot had 25 cabbage plants. A gap of 12 feet was  HORTICULTURAL CROPS kept between two adjacent plots. The experiment was laid out in complete randomised design (CRD) in a plot size of 2 m × 2 m with 25 replications. Each cabbage plant was treated as a replicate. The cabbage was planted in 40 cm × 30 cm geometry. Five concentrations, viz. 0, 10, 20, 30 and 100%, of cow and buffalo urine with water were sprayed to observe their aphicidal properties as well as their effect on growth of cabbage. For sheep urine, two concentrations, viz. 0 and 100%, were used. Volume of urine mixture applied per plant was 20 ml. To compare these results with chemical pesticides, a commonly used insecticide, monocrotophos 0.05% was used. Cowdung cakes were dried and collected in a heap. The heap of cowdung was burnt in the open field and the ash was collected. The quantity of ash dusted was 0, 50, 100 and 150 g/plant. Observations on the incidence of aphids, number of leaves per plant and plant height were taken at 5 days interval up to 60 days of plant growth. Final observations were statistically analysed by applying Student `t' test and F test to find out the level of significance. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study The results of the study are summarized below: About 40% farmers revealed that spray of cow urine on cabbage foliage reduces the incidence of insect pest especially aphids. About 20% farmers reported that dusting cowdung ash on foliage is effective for controlling aphid population on cabbage plant. About 30% farmers revealed that sowing of cabbage seed in a mixture of cowdung ash and soil (100 g ash/plant) results in very good (80%) seed germination and the remaining farmers informed that such a treatment did not help much (10-15% germination). About 15% farmers reported that by dipping of cabbage seed in cow urine, about 60_80% germination occurred; the other farmers did not practice this method. About 20% farmers use aged cow urine for control of insect pests in cabbage and they felt that it is an effective method. Both cowdung ash and burnt crop residue ensure better growth of the plant in terms of number of leaves, thicker stem and plant height.