 Paddy sown on 25_26 May and 13_14 of Jyestha month avoids insect and pest attack. Transplanting of paddy, kadan and gachhiyan in paddy before Bhadra, 12 is considered better for paddy crop. Farm implements Implements used for land preparation are bullock-drawn plough (small and big), moi, spade, gaita, kadokurol, hasua and gachian. Name and address of the discloser : M/s Paryavaran Chetna Kendra of village _ Bada Sigdi, Post _ Potka, East Singhbhum (Jharkhand). Location of use of the ITK : Village Bada Sigdi and nearby villages, Block Potka, East Singhbhum (Jharkhand) Experimenters : Dr S. Choubey, Senior Assistant Professor, Department of Agronomy; Shri R. K. Singh, Research Associate (IVLP) and Dr R. P. Singh `Ratan', Head, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand). Facilitator : Shri Sidheswar Jee, M/s Paryavaran Chetna Kendra, Village Bada Sigdi, Post Potka, East Singhbhum (Jharkhand). Methodology Location The study was conducted in village Bada sigdi and nearby villages, block Potka, East Singhbhum (Jharkhand). PRA and field study PRA tools was applied to determine the efficacy of indigenous rice cultivation practices in terms of availability of seed, tolerance to water stress, compatibility to local sowing or transplanting method, control of pest, additional  8  CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS nutrients required, liking of the growers and yield. Matrix scoring was done involving randomly selected 20 practitioners of the practice. For validation, the ITK was compared with the corresponding improved practices. Experiment A field experiment was conducted in rainy (kharif) season of 2002–03 at Bada Sigdi village with three treatments, viz., T 1 control (indigenous rice variety (Malto) with 10 q/ha FYM), T 2 use of ITK [indigenous seed (Malto), use of FYM as in the control, bushening, indigenous insect-pest control method, i.e. use of sinduar leaves and use of 50–60 kg podsi leaves andbamboo shoot pieces @ 20 kg/ha]; and T 3 recommended practice (improved rice variety IR 36 @ 75 kg/ha seed rate with 100: 50: 40 kg NPK/ha and application of monocrotophos @ 2 litres/ha thrice at 20 days interval and 2 kg/ha DM-45). The experiment was laid out in RBD design using 20 replications. Each treatment covered 1,000 m 2. Observations on crop growth, pest infestation, yield and economics of cultivation were taken. The experiment was conducted under rainfed conditions. Total rain received during the crop growth period was 1,057 mm. There was short- term dry spell during 15th July to 25th August which affected the yield. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Results obtained by PRA method are presented in Table 1. The ITK of rice cultivation was Table 1.