 Mango shoot gall psylla (Apsylla cistellata Buckton) popularly known as Ghundi rog in Uttarakhand Shailendra Kumar Yadav1, M Sankar2, Asha Kumari1 and Ravish Singh2 Technology is recognised as the most noxious pest owing to its ability to transform reproductive and vegetative buds into galls results in poor to no fruit setting on affected plants. Since the last two-three years, major mango producing belts of the state (Almora, Nainital and Dehradun districts) have been facing severe incidents of shoot gall psylla. Several studies indicated that diseases like powdery mildew (Oidium sp.), anthracnose (Colletotrichum gloeosporioides) is also influenced by tree spacing and canopy orientation. The disease reduction is directly by increased light intensity, which is altered by canopy architecture manipulation. The distribution of pests within tree canopy is heterogeneous. It is obvious that under higher planting density, plant canopies overlap into the rows, reducing light incidence on leaves, thereby making the tree canopy dense and compact which encourages more pest and disease incidence. Therefore, it is a well-established fact that the maintenance of optimum canopy cover by judicious removal of selected branches as well as the central opening of trees facilitates sunlight penetration throughout the canopy. This orchard management practice checks disease and pest infestation thus very important for harnessing production potential of mango trees with minimum application of pesticides. Major disease and pests in dense canopies A systematic survey was conducted in the uniformly managed orchards of ICAR-Indian Institute of Soil and Water Conservation Research Farm, Selaqui, Dehradun (Uttarakhand) during the year 2018 to record the incidence of disease and pests under various densities of tree canopies. Preliminary observations revealed that very dense canopies favour the development and multiplication of pests such as hoppers, mealy bug, mango psylla, fruit flies and diseases such as anthracnose and sooty mould March–April 2024 13 while thin canopies adversely affect fruit yield. Based on this observation, studies were conducted to minimise the incidence of these pests and diseases by standardizing tree canopy density so that economical, optimum and disease free production of mango fruit could be achieved. Methods for the estimation of densities of tree canopies Several specially designed instruments are used in forest studies to estimate canopy cover. Few of them are discussed below: y The convex spherical densiometer is a pocket-sized instrument that uses a convex mirror with a grid of 24 squares. Canopy cover is calculated from the number of squares on the mirror filled with vegetation. y The angular densiometer has a convex mirror, a compass, a bubble level, and a fixed eyesight. It produces a clearer image and a more exact estimation of canopy cover than the convex spherical densiometer.