 In: Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the American Statistical Association, Survey Research Methods Section. August 2004. Szolnoki, Gergely, Hoffmann, Dieter, 2013. Online, face-to-face and telephone surveys— Comparing different sampling methods in wine consumer research. Wine Econ. Policy 2 (2), 57–66. Zezza, Alberto, Mcgee, Kevin, Wollburg, Philip, Assefa, Thomas, Gourlay, Sydney, 2022. From Necessity to Opportunity : Lessons for Integrating Phone and In-Person Data Collection for Agricultural Statistics in a Post-Pandemic World. Policy Research Working Papers 10168, World Bank, Washington, DC. 

Smart Agricultural Technology 6 (2023) 100369 Available online 23 November 2023 2772-3755/© 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by- nc-nd/4.0/). Agriculture water poverty status of sugarcane cultivation along canals of Jayakwadi Dam, Maharashtra, India Rahul Haribhau Wadghane a,*, Omprakash Madguni b a Fellow Programme in Management in Ecosystem and Environment Management, Indian Institute of Forest Management, Bhopal, India b Assistant Professor at Department of Ecosystem and Environment Management, Indian Institute of Forest Management, Bhopal, India A R T I C L E I N F O Keywords: Agriculture water poverty Irrigation Command area Natural resource management A B S T R A C T This article delves into the critical realm of water scarcity and emphasises the significance of accessible water and effective water management. Water scarcity is a major issue that affects the entire world and has a number of serious repercussions. In India, the real problem lies in water management issues that need to consider water conservation, water use efficiency, adequate water infrastructure development, awareness, gender equity, and participation. The study focuses on advancing the approach of the Water Poverty Index to enhance sustainable practices. The study specifically delves into the intricacies of the Agriculture Water Poverty Index (AWPI) within chosen command areas neighbouring the Jayakwadi Dam Canals in Maharashtra, India. Spatial data and various AWPI components are employed to decipher the prevailing water scarcity scenario in this region. The analysis underscores a negative correlation between available resources and their consumption. Notably, sub-indicators such as access, usage, and capacity exhibit a positive correlation with the AWPI. Within the study area, the components of ’resources’ and ’capacity’ manifest relatively lower values compared to ’use,’ ’access,’ and ’environment.’ The insights derived from this study advocate for bolstering both capacity and water usage components to elevate AWPI status. Furthermore, the study advocates for prioritising enhancements in social aspects of AWPI, particularly in terms of capacity.