 The Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, Government of India (GoI) in its recently released report on ‘Youth in India 2022’ has estimated that youth in the age group of 15-29 years comprised 27.2 % of the population in 2021, which is expected to decrease to 22.7 % by 2036. Today, India has the largest global youth population of 356 million between 10-24 age group with greater proportion of nearly 200 million young people living in the rural areas. The overall rate of literacy among India’s youth has increased, with approximately 90 % being able to read or write. Coupled with the prevalence of social media and internet penetration, Tailoring India’s agricultural education for the 21st century youth Challenges in retaining youth in agriculture the youth are largely digitally savvy population, accessing online resources that encourage learning and enhancing skills. Thus, the country has the advantage of a ‘demographic dividend’. When this vast resource of young citizens enters the workforce, it could lead to greater economic growth resulting a shift in a population’s age structure, mainly when the working-age population is larger than the number of dependents. These young people are driving a culture of innovation, entrepreneurship and diversity and need to have greater inclusion in the agricultural sector, which contributes to nearly 20% of the country’s gross domestic product (GDP). The COVID-19 crisis has amply demonstrated that even under the most severe lockdown of economic activities, agriculture needs to continue producing without fail. Many countries have reported economic recession and efforts to Article R S Paroda Today, India has the largest global youth population of 356 million between 10-24 age group with greater proportion of nearly 200 million young people living in the rural areas. The overall rate of literacy among India’s youth has increased, with approximately 90% being able to read or write. 16 revive their economies to overcome shocks due to the pandemic are underway. Education in general, and agricultural education in particular, would be the most crucial for this process. It is only with high quality, inclusive and equitable training, countries will succeed in overcoming the pandemic setback, which has affected millions of children, youth, and adults, especially in the lower income groups. In agrarian countries like India, agriculture is a central activity contributing significantly to the national GDP. In the years to come, the agriculture sector will take another qualitative leap, taking the benefits of digitalization and other technological advancements. Why youth are reluctant to join agricultural sector? Over the years, the farming community has been affected adversely due to small land holdings, which comprise over 80% of total farm households.