 Textbook of Field Crops Production – Commercial Crops For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel: 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail: bmicar@gmail.com (Volume II) TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Pages : i-xiv + 612 • Price : ` 800 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-146-8 (12%) + mancozeb (63%) @ 0.2% or azoxystrobin 23SC @ 0.1% in places where the disease exists. Shoulder browning Shoulder browning disease is caused by the complex of Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, Alternaria alternata and Capnodium mangiferae during the monsoon months. The incidence of the disease has been recorded at up to 100% with a severity of up to 71%. Rainfall plays a key role in the development of the disease. Apart from rainfall, temperature, relative humidity and wind speed were found to be responsible for disease dynamism. The symptoms appear as depositions on the fruit’s shoulders (Fig. 6a). The deposit contains stains and spores of fungi existing on tree. The number and amount of rain gradually increases the deposition of spores and staining of the epicarp (Fig. 6b). Management Management of this disease is of great significance for the market value of fruits as well as for reducing the postharvest rotting of fruits. It can be controlled by bagging fruits, spraying with difenoconazole at a concentration of 0.05%, propineb 70WP at a concentration of 0.2%, or spraying oil at a concentration of 1.0%. For further interaction, please write to: P K Shukla, Division of Crop Protection, ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Rehmankhera, PO Kakori, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 101. Corresponding author e-mail: pksmush@gmail.com July–August 2021 41 H S Singh* and Gundappa Baradevanal Mango insect pests and their integrated management strategies Plant protection research is focused on integrating new tools and technologies into IPM in horticulture. The fruit sector in India recorded a growth of around 16% last year, compared to 12% for vegetables and 10.8% for food grains. When used in conjunction with other pest control measures, plant protection research in horticulture has produced many technologies, some of which have been standardized for commercial application and are claimed to provide better pest control and crop economics than conventional chemical control. Nonetheless, due to a variety of technological, socio-economic, institutional, and policy factors, the development and adoption of many of these technologies have been slow. Owing to the complexity of biotic stress in horticulture under changing climatic scenarios, technology generation, and other factors, testing and adoption remain a significant challenge, particularly given the constraints and limited ability of smallholding farmers.