 Pigeonpea -Vipula, BDN-708, Phule Rajeshwari, BDN-711, BSMR-853 xiv. Pearlmillet - Adishakti, Dhanshakti xv. Rabi sorghum -Phule Vasudha, Phule Suchitra 348 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 xvi. Safflower - Bhima / SSF-708, SSF-733, SSF-748, PBNS-12 xvii. Chickpea - Vijay / Digvijay xviii. Adoption of improved package of practices xix. Reduced tillage xx. Hoeing at 25 DAS. xxi. Intercropping of Sunflower (Phule Bhaskar, LSFH 171) + Pigeonpea (Vipula, BDN-708, BDN-711, BSMR-853, Phule Rajeshwari) (2:1) xxii. Intercropping of Pearlmillet (Adishakti, Dhanshakti) + Pigeonpea (Vipula, BDN-708, BDN-711, BSMR-853) (2:1), xxiii. Intercropping of Soybean (Phule Agrani, Phule Sangam, JS-335 ) + Pigeonpea (Vipula, BDN-708, BDN-711, BSMR-853) (3:1) (Barshi area) xxiv. Intercropping of Pigeonpea + Black gram (TAU-1, TPU-4) (1:3) xxv. Strip cropping of Chickpea + Safflower (6:3) xxvi. Strip cropping of Rabi sorghum + Chickpea (6:3) xxvii. Contingent crop planning for delayed onset of monsoon xxviii. Strengthening of disease and pest management technologies xxix. Use of preventive control measures xxx. Use of botanical and bioagents xxxi. Need based application of chemical pesticides xxxii. Adoption of farm mechanization xxxiii. Use of bullock drawn (Phule Sheti Yantra) and tractor drawn seed-cum ferti drill. xxxiv. Use of cycle hoe for interculturing xxxv. Use of combine harvester for safflower xxxvi. Management of soil health in dryland condition xxxvii. Integrated nutrient management approach should be followed xxxviii. Fertilizers should be applied at the time of sowing xxxix. Organic cultivation of local grain and millets in different blocks. xl. Promotion of soil amendments in reclamation of saline and sodic problematic and degraded soil xli. Soil and crop stress management xlii. Use of crop residue management for mulching xliii. Use of soil amendments xliv. Use of foliar sprays of anti-transpirants. xlv. Use of potash and zinc foliar sprays. Strategy 2 : Livestock: Goatry, Poultry, Fisheries 349 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 i. Promotion of animal breeds ii. Selection of high milk breeds in buffaloes (Pandharpuri) and cattle. iii. Selection of heat tolerant breeds iv. Promotion of goat rearing of Osmanabadi breed v. Establishment of three hatcheries for need of broilor such as Giriraj, Vanraj vi. Establishment of milk chilling plant vii. Animal nutrition management. viii. Silage making ix. Use of Hydrophonics and Azolla in fodder x. Establishment of Fodder Bank to meet fodder requirement of area. xi. Promotion of Urea, Molasses, Multinutrient Blocks at Nyaypanchayt level. xii. Promotion of dryland fodder trees/ crops/ grasses viz., Subabhul, Shevari and Stylo xiii. Health cover xiv. Vaccination at proper time xv.