 240/ kg (Approx.) Inactivating Salmonella Typhimurium and S. Enteritidis on dressed chicken meat: Processes were standardized to produce hygienic dressed poultry meat. Generally accepted as safe (GRAS) antimicrobials such as carvacrol or acidified sodium chlorite or trisodium phosphate were used, followed by thermal treatment of carcass. The process involves pre-dipping of dressed poultry carcass in pre- standardized concentration of either of these chemicals for pre-calibrated time period, followed by hot water dipping of carcass and lastly dipping of heat treated carcass in chilled water. The data were generated on inactivation of Salmonella Typhimurium. Meat species identification: Total protein separation using 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DE) (pH 4- 7, 13cm IPG strips) and identification of myosin light chain isoforms indicating meat species using MALDI- TOF/TOF mass spectrometry (MS) analysis was achieved for raw and cooked meat mix containing different proportions of buffalo, sheep and goat meats. Baseline data on antibiotic residues in fish and chicken samples from different parts of Hyderabad for Oxytetracycline and Chlortetracycline of tetracycline class and Ciprofloxacin and Enrofloxacin of Flouroquinole class were generated. The results indicated that out of 50 samples tested, 29 samples (58%) were positive and contained residues of one or more antibiotics. Wool Apparel yarn: Dumba sheep has two type of wool cover; outer cover (coarse wool) and inner cover (fine wool). About 20% of total wool produced by Dumba belongs to fine wool type which is used for manufacturing hand spun yarn. It possesses lower tenacity and elongation at break. Woven fabric from the yarn possesses high values for bending and shear rigidity, fabric formability and thickness. Fabrics of Dumba wool-BM wool-Nylon (40:20:40) in semi worsted spinning system were spun and used for different woolen products. Use of industrial waste wool: Waste sheep’s wool is mostly deposited in landfills resulting in loss of nutrients present in the wool. Studies carried out to observe effects of wool waste use on moisture conservation and plant growth indicated: • Incorporation of wool waste in soil improves water holding capacity in pot culture and enhanced growth of barley and fenugreek. • An increase of 20 to 25% was observed in moisture retention capacity of sandy loam soils which enhanced plant growth. Incorporation of wool dust and sheep manure in 1:1 ratio significantly reduced soil pH when incubated for 45 days (8.23 to 7.33). Major nutrients in sheep manure i.e. N, P and K were also increased remarkably due to addition of wool dust. Value addition in yak wool: Polymorphic chemical composition of yak hair was confirmed for the first time. The yak hair has interrupted medulla with long flattened cells and air gap in between. This feature is helpful to prepare value added yak wool products.