0 Indian Horticulture 56 Adult litchi stink bug Litchi looper damage Ash weevil damage Adult fruit borer Litchi looper damage Bark eating caterpillar Litchi looper pupa and adult Pupae of litchi fruit borer Bark eating caterpillar larva inside Litchi bug Red weevil damage Leaf roller damage Spraying schedule based on regular monitoring During monsoon season, major litchi pests as shoot borer, leaf roller and looper can be done through application of two spray of systemic insecticide viz., thiacloprid 21.7 SC or imidacloprid 17.8 SL @ 0.5-0.7 ml/L during September month at 15 days interval on emerging shoots. However, this spray timing may change in various regions depending upon litchi flushing. Spraying of neem oil (4 ml/L) before flowering may be given to avoid insect egg laying. Alternatively, three spray may be done using any recommended insecticides at different interval during April-May, viz. first spray at clove size May–June 2023 57 fruit, second spray at cardamom size fruit (after fifteen days of first spray) while third spray at 10 days after second spray (about 15 days before harvest) to regulate pest complex effectively during fruiting season. Precautions/alertness Spraying should be done only in sunny days during evening and on outer as well as inner canopy in all the direction on the tree with the help of power sprayer having hollow cone nozzles. Mix sticker @ 0.4 ml/L with insecticide for better results, it also improves effectiveness during rainy season subject to four hours waiting period after spray. Community based approach will be more helpful in pest management programme. Way forward The litchi pest management tactics includes understanding the seasonal occurrence, nature of damage, life cycle and associated natural enemies of pests. Applying pest management system in litchi, growers should be smart enough to select the available pest management options to reduce overall pest load and that may be effective, economic and ecologically sound. Newer/ safer molecules with selective action, safer to non-target organisms and environmentally sound (IGRs, avermectins, spinosyns, diamides) should be used to manage litchi pests (Table 3). Additionally, insecticidal combinations may be the best alternative to address the problem and to mitigate insecticide resistance. Combining insecticides with different properties such as nature action can be advantageous for containing both chewing and sucking pests simultaneously. Mixtures may enhance the overall target spectra allowing the control of a wide range of pests when they are present on the crop at the same time. SUMMARY The infested litchi shoots/fruits and leaves due to fruit and shoots borer, litchi mite, leaf roller, litchi looper and weevils should be removed twice in a year during June and August. Litchi orchard should be ploughed during summer to kill the eggs and hibernating stages of insects by exposing to sun heat, ants and birds.