 Maximum seed yield of okra Hisar Unnat was obtained by sowing on 15 June at 60 cm × 30 cm spacing at Hisar. Arka Anamika produced maximum seed when sown on 15 May at 45 cm × 45 cm spacing at Vellanikara. It is recommended that for higher recovery of good quality seeds in tomato the seeds of first 3 pickings should be extracted. Application of 20 ppm NAA along with apical pinching at 60 cm × 45 cm spacing is recommended for obtaining maximum seed yield in bell pepper California Wonder. The results of 3 years’ trials at Varanasi, Rahuri, Sabour and Hyderabad showed that clipping of infested shoots at weekly intervals followed by spraying of Cypermethrin thrice @ 50 g a.i./ha at 15 days interval was effective in the management of brinjal shoot- and fruit-borer. Five sprays of Lambda cyhalothrin @ 0.0015% or NSKE 4% starting from flower initiation at 15 days interval were recommended for the management of shoot-and fruit-borer in brinjal at Rahuri. Planting one row of marigold after every 16 rows of tomato and 2 sprays of Endosulfan (0.07%) 28 and 35 days after planting were recommended for the management of tomato fruit-borer under Hyderabad conditions. For the management of cabbage pests, sowing of mustard after 25 rows of cabbage at planting times and spraying on mustard crop with dichlorovos @ 0.1% (2 sprays) at weekly intervals and NSKE 4% were recommended under Rahuri conditions. TUBER CROPS POTATO The germplasm was enriched by adding 77 new accessions from CIP, Lima, and 12 indigenous samples from interiors of Kashmir and Meghalaya. JEX/A-680-6, an Andigena parental line, was registered with NBPGR, New Delhi, as an elite germplasm. Red-skinned, high-yielding hybrid, MS/92-2105, having field resistance to late blight was proposed for release for cultivation in the plains of Bihar, West Bengal and Orissa. The hybrid yields 35.38 tonnes/ha, nearly 2% more dry-matter yield than Kufri Lalima and Kufri Sindhuri in the northern plains. Heat tolerant, white- skinned hybrid, HT/92-621, was identified performing very well in warmer parts of the country. Besides higher yields, this hybrid produces high dry-matter recovery right from 75 days onwards and produces excellent chips and French fries. The hybrid is under pre-release trials. A new hybrid TPS population, 92-PT-27, was recommended for release in the plains of India particularly for the warmer plateau areas where good quality potatoes cannot be produced for use as healthy seed. Besides higher yields over the existing population, TPS-C-3 and HPS-1/13, new TPS population has an added advantage of its parents flowering under short-day conditions of the plains.