 [Action: DDG (Animal Science)] 12 Agenda 5.17: Setting up of an Advanced Disease Diagnostic and Research Center- Animal Disease Registry GADVASU, Ludhiana informed that the facilities at the University Diseases Diagnostics Centre are inadequate to achieve the desired objectives despite having enough teaching material available in the clinics. Moreover, pet owners, equine breeders and commercials dairy farmers are ready to pay for any advanced test if their precious animal can be saved. Therefore, to keep pace with modern animal health technologies and for improved learning of the students, the setting up of advanced diseases diagnostics was proposed. [Action: DDG (Animal Science)] Agenda 5.18: Conduct of Brain Storming Sessions in areas of vital contemporary interest BCKV, Mohanpur mentioned that the possibility may be explored to hold the Brain Storming Sessions in areas of vital contemporary interest, which would provide opportunity of taking a relook at the issues with an in- depth analysis. The point was noted. (Action: all VCs/SMDs) Agenda 5.19: Current joining of new ARS Probationers before Foundation training IARI, New Delhi presented that the ICAR has recently permitted the Ph.D. students to join ARS after the completion of their thesis work. There are many others including some with Ph.D. degrees who have been selected but not allowed to join so far because NAARM cannot accommodate them for training for certain periods which affects their seniority. Director, NAARM and Director (Pers.) were requested to look into. [Action: Director, NAARM/Dir (P)] Agenda 5.20: Establishment of National Centre of Excellence IARI, New Delhi mentioned that research and teaching in about 95 disciplines are carried out in various SAUs, Central Universities and Deemed 13 Universities of the country. Due to limited resources and faculty it has not been possible to carry out high quality in-depth research in most of the disciplines. It would be appropriate to identify two to three national centers of excellence in each discipline which may be located strategically in the selected ICAR Institutes/SAUs. Such centers may have state of the art equipment and other facilities and manpower with the mandate of mission oriented basic research and high quality education. [Action: All SAUs/DUs/ADG (EPD)] Agenda 5.21: Preparation of Contingency Plans for Agriculture & Allied Sectors to Meet Adverse Eventualities Arising due to Extreme Climate Variability DDG (NRM) presented the agenda. The consultative Committee of the Members of Parliament in respect of the Ministry of Agriculture has desired preparation of Contingency Plans at district level for all the 126 Agro Climate Zones of the country to deal with weather related aberrations like droughts, floods and outbreak of diseases etc.