 On extrapolation of data on carbon enrichment ration at national level, it is estimated that out of 115.36 Tg/yr of displaced organic carbon, about 34.61 Tg C is being emitted to atmosphere as CO2 every year through erosion which emphasizes the importance of soil erosion as a widespread threat and cause of both greenhouse gas emissions and soil degradation in India. This raises the potential to reduce both problems by regenerating degraded soils using recommended management practices (RMPs) to stabilize soil and increase C-sequestration. Results also revealed that between 19 and 27 Tg C/yr could be sequestered in soils by adopting achievable technological options in erosion-affected areas of India, offering the potential to reduce about 24.5% of total greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural soils of India (94 Tg C). Field evaluation of groundwater recharge filters: Three different designs of groundwater recharge filters, viz. one stage downward flow type, one stage upward flow type and two stage upward-downward flow type groundwater recharge filter was developed by ICAR- IISWC, RC-Vasad with the following attributes: One stage downward flow recharge filter: Gravity concept based one section downward flow type recharge filter design was constructed for field evaluation. The peak discharge rate obtained at the inlet and outlet of groundwater recharge filter was 15.84 l/s and 6.73 l/s, respectively. The average sediment filtering efficiency was 95.98%, and it ranged from 91.03% to 99.52% for different events. The sediment trap installed before the recharge filter was able to trap 64.6% of the sediment entering the recharge filter through runoff water. The mean peak recharge rate for one stage One stage downward flow recharge filter downward flow type groundwater recharge filter was 9.05 l/s and sediment filtering efficiency was 89.75%. One stage upward flow recharge filter: The peak discharge rate obtained at filter inlet and outlet was 10.23 l/s and 7.97 l/s, respectively. The average sediment filtering efficiency was 91.54% and it ranged from 90.28 to 92.62% for different events. The sediment was deposited in the open space below the filter and no sediment deposition was observed in the sand layer. Its mean peak recharge rate was 4.86 l/s and sediment filtering efficiency was 89.63%. One stage upward flow recharge filter The useful working life of one stage downward flow type, one stage upward flow type and two stage upward-downward flow type groundwater recharge filter was one year, four years and two years, respectively. The frequency of maintenance for one stage downward flow type, one stage upward flow type and two stage upward-downward flow type groundwater recharge filter was six times, three times and four times in a rainy season, respectively. Two stage upward-downward flow recharge filter: The peak discharge rate obtained at filter inlet and outlet was 11.23 l/s and 6.80 l/s, respectively.