 On an average, 10-15 years of jhum cycle was considered to be sustainable. Of late the jhum cycle has reduced to 4-5 years, which is a major threat to the resource conservation and food security. In order to provide alternatives to shifting agriculture, ICAR Research Complex for North Eastern Hill (NEH) Region was established at Barapani, Meghalaya in the year 1975 with its regional stations in all the northeastern states including Sikkim. Farming system research is the core strength of the institute and developed six IFS models for long term data generation. The institute has also developed seven Intensive Integrated Farming System (IIFS) models for achieving food and nutritional security besides value addition, product diversification and needful employment opportunities and replicated these models at 36 different locations of entire NEH region. Further, to move towards chemical free agriculture in niche area of hill agriculture, Integrated Organic Farming System (IOFS) suitable for the region has been developed and promoted in the clusters through MOVCDNER. Livestock based enterprises, soil acidity amelioration, Citrus rejuvenation, bamboo and alder based agroforestry systems, jalkund are some other important technologies developed by the institute besides varietal development in rice, maize, vegetables, guava and pulse crops. Indian Agriculture after Independence 274 Coastal agriculture: The coastal region of India is spread over 75 coastal districts in 9 states (Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal) and 2 UTs (Daman and Diu & Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Puducherry). Poor productivity of crops, livestock and fisheries, sea water ingression and salinity, small and marginal land holdings etc. are the major challenges faced by coastal farmers. To improve productivity of crops, livestock and fishery and augment farmer’s income, Central Coastal Agriculture Research (CCARI) has developed four rice varieties; four cashew varieties and a cowpea variety. The institute has also developed IFS models for coastal region. Cumulatively, all the technologies benefitted around 1.40 lakh farm families and generated an employment opportunities of 5.21 lakh man-days. 2.6. Rainfed agriculture Rainfed agriculture accounts for about 50% net sown area in India and is crucial to country’s economy and food security since it contributes to about 40% of the total food grain production. It also supports two-thirds of livestock and 40 % of human population and influences livelihood of 80% of small and marginal farmers. Climatic risks like droughts, unseasonal high intensity rainfall events and floods, poor water and nutrient retention capacity of soil and low soil organic matter (SOM) impact highly vulnerable, rainfed agriculture requiring a different outlook and strategy.