 Quality & Safety Important research developments in the area of quality and safety include standardization of protocols for detection of chemical contaminants, withdrawal period of antibiotics, microbiological interventions, challenge studies of different foodborne pathogens, different HACCP-based packages of practices, development of quality index schemes, etc. ICAR-CIFT has developed a chlorine level indicator paper called ‘Cloritest’ in the 1980s for instant reading of the chlorine levels in process water. This easy-to-use concept and the technology since then is widely adopted in the industry, with many commercial companies producing similar kits, not only for the fish processing industry but also for many industrial and other non-commercial applications. Two simple and user-friendly kits namely ‘CIFTest’ developed by ICAR-CIFT have been successful in determining the adulteration of ammonia and formaldehyde in fish which are also commercialized. 3. Knowledge gaps and way forward One of the greatest concerns for India in the 21st century is food and nutrition security for a predicted population of over 1.6 billion by 2050 in the face of economic and financial uncertainty, climate change, and increasing competition for natural resources. The fishery production systems that could contribute significantly to future food production are increasingly under pressure due to rapid resource degradation as a result of anthropogenic activities including pollution from land-based sources, climate change, increase in Achievements in Fisheries and Aquaculture in Independent India 203 hypoxic areas or dead zones, the spread of alien species, and ocean acidification. These challenges necessitate a coordinated response and a swift transition to a more sustainable, inclusive, and resource-efficient course for the future to build resilience in fisheries and sustainability in aquaculture. The Government of India’s projections for 2024-25 includes the production of 22 million tons of fish at an average annual growth of about 9%, doubling export earnings from the present Rs. 46,663 crores (2019-20) to about Rs. 1,00,000 crores, enhancing national average aquaculture productivity from 3.5 tons to >5 t ha-1, increasing the per capita domestic fish consumption from about 8 kg to about 12 kg, and reducing post-harvest losses from the reported 20-25% to about 10%. To achieve the potential of the sector, the following efforts are suggested: The marine catches are plateauing and prompt action is necessary to resolve the underlying causes. Overcapacity in the fisheries sector is a severe issue. Overfishing and excessive juvenile catch are triggered by economic and social compulsions.