 It is grown plentiful through out the warmer part of the country, especially in Bengal, Bihar and Deccan. 34 Asparagus racemosus Asparagus H-Satawar B-Satamuli M-Satawarmul G-Satawari TelChallagadda TShimaishadavar KanMajjigegadde Mal-Shatavali Several medicinal properties are attributed to the root. It is said to be tonic and diuretic and useful as a galactogogue. A mixture of honey and fresh root juice is given as a demulcent in dyspepsia. The root is largely used in the preparation of the medicated oil, prescribed for nervous and rheumatic complaints. A scandent climber distributed through out tropical Asia, Africa and Australia. It is common in India ascending up to an altitude 4000 feet in the Himalayas and in Sri Lanka. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 315 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 35 Azadirachta indica Neem H-Nim B-Nim Mar-Limba G-Limba Tel-Vepa T-Vepa Mal-Vepa Kan-Bevu The seed oil is acrid, yellow, and bitter in taste and has disagreable garlic like odour. It is used in skin diseases such as scrofula, indolent ulcers, and sores and ring worm. Bitter principle is due to presence of Nimbidin. The bark is a bitter tonic, astringent and anti-periodic. The bark is also considered useful in skin diseases. The seeds are reported to contain up to 45% oil. It is reported to possess anthalmintic and insecticidal properties. The odour is produced by the burning of powdered leaf is said to be fatal to insects.The dry flowers are considered as tonic and stomachic. The berries are purgative and emolient and anthalmintic. Oil cake is regarded as useful fertilizer. A medium sized tree with a clear bole of 10–25 feet. It is evergreen, in dry areas it becomes deciduous. The flowers appear from March to May, the fruits ripen during June-August. 36 Bahunia variegata Bahunia H-Kachnar Tree yields gum similar to cherry gum. Its bark is reported to be used in dyeing to obtain various shades of brown. The bark is described as astringent, alterative tonic, and useful in scorfulla, skin diseases and ulcers. The plant provides good fodder. A medium sized tree, flowering during hot season, distributed in sub- Himalayan tract, Indus-east wards, also in dry forests over eastern, central and South India and in Burma. 37 Balanites aegyptiaca Delile H-Hingan Hingot M- Hinganabet G-Regorea Tel-Gari T-Nanjunda The pulp of fruit contains some saponine but not astringent. The seeds, fruits, bark and leaves are reported to be anthelmintic and purgative.In western India, bark is used as an anthelmintic for cattle. A small spiny tree about 20 feet high with bifoliate ashy-green leaves. The fruits, ripen in winter are ovoid drupes. The tree is characteristic of the drier parts of India and Burma.