 OF FISH GENETIC RESOURCES 4 ™ Lucknow A Mini Gene Bank, NBFGR, f The National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources (NBFGR), a recent addition, aims” to introduce appropriate alternatives in gonadal sex manipulation, cryopreser- vation of gametes, potent hybrids, gynogenesis and polyploidy. To breed fast growing hardy and high-yielding fish varieties, the pureline fish stocks are preserved and maintained. At presentthe NBFGR has compiled genetic information on 2,200 indigenous fish species. The Bureau is also working on genetic taxonomy through DNA mapping of look-alike, closely related and interbreeding species. IN FUTURE... By AD 2000, the world production of fish is projected at 100 million tonnes and India envisages to produce 6 million tonnes of it. However, the domestic consumption at present 4.5 million tonnes is expected to be 12.5 million tonnes. With capture fisheries from seas and rivers having reached a plateau, the research strategy for the future is: @ diversification of aquaculture to include more candidate species con- comitantly widening the culturable area for higher production @ sustaining production through culture technologies that safeguard the environment macro- and micro-survey of coastal areas through remote sensing for location of additional culture sites management of water-quality and health of stocked fish by diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic measures @ optimal synergetic use of water and land resources for aquaculture survey and assessment of potential resources in the outer continental shelf and beyond our EEZ rational management and conservation of the already overfished coastal resources @ R&D on unconventional offshore resources, by-catches, fish-discards and discarded fish @ R&D in optimization of craft and gear designs for maximum harvest effici- ency in offshore/oceanic operations _ @ upgradation of processing technology for prolonging shelf-life and preventing loss and spoilage during processing.  ae agri si Te " ( Sen eesti? ae PY Pa: %; 4 a engineering Sb ry “RE FP / a ? Indian agriculture has made rapid strides from subsistence farming to surplus and commercial farming. Improved agricultural’ -_— eS machinery has played a significant role apart from good seed and 5»: ‘> use of fertilizer. Fortunately our industry has manufactured good e a modern machines from time to time. a sa & . = =) “Spe Agricultural engineering extends its role into efficient utilization of agricultural inputs to reduce human drudgery; increase productivity of a man-animal-machine system; improve agricultural productivity, and add value to produce by adopting appropriate processes and equipment. Agricultural engineers at the ICAR are, thus, involved in the development of machinery for agricultural production, and postharvest operation, irrigation and drainage, energy and power management, lac, jute and cotton technology.