 The selected bank should ensure proper training and capacity building of branch managers and other staff for smooth operation of these accounts. 8. The Ministries/Departments will release the central share for each CSS to the State Government's Account held in the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for further release to the SNA's Account. 9. Funds will be released to the States strictly on the basis of balance funds of the CSS (Central and State share) available in the State treasury and bank account of the SNA as per PFMS or scheme-specific portals fully integrated with PFMS in consonance with rule 232(V) of the General Financial Rules, 2017. 10. The SNAs shall ensure that the interest earned from the funds released should be mandatorily remitted to the respective Consolidated Funds on pro-rata basis in terms of Rule 230(8) of GFR, 2017. Interest earned should be clearly and separately depicted in PFMS, scheme-specific portals integrated with PFMS and in MIS provided by the banks. 11. Except in case of schemes/sub-schemes having no State share, States will maintain separate budget lines for Central and State Share under each CSS in their Detailed Demand for Grants (DDG), and make necessary provision of the State share in the State's budget. While releasing funds to SNA, State's Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) should provide these budget heads and the same should be captured in PFMS through treasury integration. 12. In the beginning of a financial year, the Ministries/Departments will release not more than 25o/o of the amount earmarked for a State for a CSS for the financial year. Additional central share (not more than 25Yo at a time) will be released upon transfer of the stipulated State share to the Single Nodal Account and utilization of at least 75oh of the funds released earlier (both Central and State share) and compliance of the conditions of previous sanction. However, this provision will not be applicable in case of schemes where a different quantum of release has been approved by the Cabinet. 76 13. After opening of Single Nodal Account of the scheme and before opening zero balance subsidiary account of IAs or assigning them drawing rights from SNA's account, the IAs at all levels shall return all unspent amounts lying in their accounts to the Single Nodal Account of the SNA. It will be the responsibility of the State government concerned to ensure that the entire unspent amount is returned by all the IAs to the Single Nodal Account of the SNA concerned. For this, the State Governments will work out the modalities and the timelines and will work out Central and state share in the amount so available with IAs. SNAs will keep a record of unspent balance lying in the account of IAs and the amount refunded by IAs. 14. Refund of balance amount by lAs and the amount available in the SNA's account should be taken into account by the Program Division of the Ministry/Department while releasing funds under the scheme.