 Development of nano-micro matrices for the delivery of bioactives, micronutrients and therapeutic: To develop compact core-shell microcap- BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 159 BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH sules “NIMPOD” with Kluyveromyces marxianus- lactobacillus casei probiotic consortium, prebiotic fiber (within dual bio-polymeric layers) and bioactives in nanoliposomes, respectively, were optimised by employing layer-by-layer and coacervation techniques. Curcumin nanoemulsion using conjugate (particle size 134.53±1.27 nm and zeta potential -5.28±0.29 mV), under simulated GI conditions, showed slow release of curcumin. Curcumin encapsulation in skim milk using self assembly approach was also optimised. Limosilactobacillus reuteri SW27 and Ligilactobacillus salivarius RBL22 of indigenous cattle calves origin were selected and evaluated for in vitro and in vivo safety after producing spray dried microencapsulated probiotics. Nano ZnO, curcumin and its conjugates were evaluated for their in vitro antimicrobial, antioxidant and anti- inflammatory activities. Among the three nanoparticles, nano ZnO conjugate showed high antimicrobial activity against E.coli, Staphylococcus spp. and Salmonella spp. at 300µg/ml. Acute toxicity study was conducted in Wistar Albino rats. LC-MS analysis of buffalo milk isolated exosomes (100 nm, zeta potential of -20 mV), protein content of 21 mg/µl, identified approximately 2041 proteins, with 331 being consistently present across all samples. Gene ontology analysis revealed their functioning as immune response proteins. Development of biosensors for detection of fish pathogenic bacteria and hazardous metalloids in selected water bodies: A sensing device (IMAGinE) was developed for detection of Chromium (Cr6+) in water with very trace level detection limit. Different image parameter values, such as R, G, B and S were extracted from the Cr-Detector system of IMAGinE for data analysis. When the G and B values were plotted against the Cr (VI) concentrations, the different Cr (VI) concentrations could not be clearly distinguished based on either G or B values, as both the G and B values for different concentrations appeared to be similar and thus no distinguishable pattern was observed. In contrast, the R-value and S-value expressed a distinguishable pattern. The R-value for each concentration of Cr (VI) appeared to be much more distinguished; the linear regression analysis provided an excellent R2 value of 0.96. A similar pattern was observed for the S value vs. Cr (VI) concentration plot, where the linear fit with R2 value is 0.96. The developed Cr6+ sensing device IMAGinE was found to very precise and robust with very low values of LOD and LOQ, 0.0037 ppm and 0.0112 ppm, respectively. Scanning electron microscopy of L.