 Coriander: The leaves are acrid, astringent, aromatic, analgesic, anti-inflammatory and stypic, and are useful in halitosis, pharyngopathy, epistaxis, ulemorrhagia, chronic conjunctivitis, hiccough, inflammations, suppuration, haemorrhoids, jaundice and odontalgia. Coriander: Coriander, an umbelliferous plant indigenous to southern Europe, is found occasionally in Britain in fields and waste places, and by the sides of rivers. It is frequently found in a semi-wild state in the east of England, having escaped from cultivation. A glabrous, aromatic, herbaceous annual, 30-90 cm in height; leaves decompound, lower petioled and upper ones short petioled or sub-sessile, imparipinnatisect into linear-setaceous lobes; flower small, white or pinkish purple in compound terminal umbels; fruits yellowish brown, globular and ribbed, separating into two halves (mericarps), each containing a seed. Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1545 Use of harad and mustard oil to bring cattle in heat Volume 2, page 327 Mustard Refer to ITK Code No. 481 Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1583 Inducing heat in cows and buffaloes by feeding bamboo rhizome Volume 2, page 327 Bamboo Bengali: karail; Gujarati: nakor vans; Hindi: bans kaban, bans khurd, narbans; Kannada: kiri bidiru; Malayalam: kal mungil; Marathi: bhariyel; Sanskrit: vansha; Tamil: kalmungil; Telugu: sadanapa veduru. Male bamboo, solid bamboo Dendrocalamus strictus Nees Male bamboo is extensively employed as a raw material for paper manufacture in India. The pulp is suitable for use in the rayon industry. Dead and flowered bamboos appear quite satisfactory for paper manufacture provided they are not attacked by insects. A densely tufted bamboo with a strong, elastic, thick-walled or solid culms varying in size according to locality. It is found in deciduous forest and in dry or moderately dry regions practically all over India up to 3,500 ft Culms usually 20 to 50 ft high x 1-3 in. diameter, somewhat swollen at the nodes and bearing in open situations leafy, often deflexed, branches from the base; upper branches curved and drooping; internodes 12-18 in. long; culm sheaths variable. Flowering irregular and sporadic, at times gregarious over large areas. Seeds similar in form to, but about half the size of, unhusked wheat; weight, 800-1,560 to 28 g; germinating capacity 25-80%. 1915 Feeding of growing bamboo shoot {karil) to induce puberty to young animals Volume 2, page 328 Karil Refer to ITK Code No.