 The quality attributes are also given due importance with no yield penalty. The All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRPs)/Network Research Projects with active collaboration with State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) are engaged in the development of improved crop varieties/ hybrids, cost-effective production and environment-friendly protection technologies in different agro-climatic regions. 7. The provision is to address thrust areas of enrichment of horticultural genetic resources, development of new cultivation with resistance mechanism to biotic and abiotic stresses, appropriate production technology and health management system of horticultural and vegetable crops. 8. Supports basic and strategic research in agriculture to address the prioritized research problems. 9. The provision is to develop new technologies to support production enhancement, profitability, competitiveness and sustainability of livestock and poultry sector for food and nutritional security. It will facilitate need based priority research in livestock and poultry sector in on-going and new emerging areas to support productivity increase, thereby reducing the gap between potential and actual yield. 10. The provision is to implement research and academic programmes in fisheries and aquaculture. It also provides technical, training, analytical, advisory support and consultancy services in the field of resources assessment and management, standardization of aquaculture hatchery and grow-out culture technologies, responsible fishing system and species diversification and utilization of inland saline soils for aquaculture, fish health monitoring, etc. 11. The provision will provide financial support to all the agricultural universities in the country comprising State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), Deemed universities (DUs), and Central Universities (CUs) with Agriculture Faculty. The scheme is also responsible for maintainance and improvement of standard of agricultural education through:(i) accreditation of educational institutions, (ii) providing International/national fellowships both at post and undergraduate levels, (iii) organization of training and capacity building programmes for the scientists/faculty of National Agricultural Research System in cutting-edge areas. 12. The provision is for conducting research in the areas of agricultural economics and agricultural statistics to address the policy, management and database issues and accordingly provide need-based support to other schemes and agricultural stakeholders. 13.