 The point counts were conducted by 15 experienced local ornithologists and birdwatchers who were familiar with the ecosystems of the study region and the natural history of the bird species. Working in pairs, observers surveyed each point for 5 min. The observers used a snapshot survey tech- nique, a method where the observer records all the birds spotted or heard at one precise, stationary “snapshot” moment during a 5-min window (Buckland, 2006). The observers used rangefinders to measure the distance of F I G U R E 2 Cultivated area for the annual crops and semi-perennial sugarcane in Pune district, Maharashtra. The figure shows consistent growth in the area of sugarcane (all three varieties) over the past two decades, mirroring a decline in cultivation areas for traditional annual crop types during the same period. Figure produced by the authors based on the district-wise, season-wise crop production statistics from 1997 available from the Open Government Data (OGD) Platform India at https://www.data.gov.in/catalog/district- wise-season-wise-crop-production-statistics-0; see Appendix S1: Figure S8 for individual crop-based production area information. ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS 5 of 17 each bird from the observer and only considered the birds within a 150 m radius from the survey point to avoid double counting of birds from the adjacent grid cells or point counts. Since birds were not sensitive to observer presence, no settling period was necessary. Land cover mapping We measured landscape composition of the landscape as the proportion of (1) semi-perennial crops (consisting mainly of sugarcane), (2) annual crops (combined Kharif and Rabi; traditional crop types), (3) savanna grassland cover and (4) woody vegetation cover, inside a 150-m radius circular buffer surrounding each point count (Figure 3). Additionally, we calculated land cover diver- sity as a measure of landscape composition for all buffers, using Shannon’s diversity index (Figure 3). Since adjacent points were separated by a minimum distance of 300 m, we picked a 150-m radius while mapping land cover sur- rounding each point count such that it would not overlap with the adjacent bird survey location. We measured landscape configuration using the mean field size for all crop fields that were situated within, or intersecting the border of each 150-m buffer surrounding the points. For an accurate mean area estimation of the field sizes, we included field boundaries that intersected the 150-m buffer but were not fully located inside the buffer (Figure 3). We delineated crop fields using a pretrained deep learning model (Rufin et al., 2023; Wang et al., 2022) deployed on Google Earth Pro very high resolution (VHR) imagery. The underlying model architecture is a FracTAL ResUNet specifically designed for crop field delineation (Waldner et al., 2021; Waldner & Diakogiannis, 2020).