 Its untapped potential and probable economic gains due to technological and marketing intervention will pave ways to country’s sustainable goat production and also realize Gandhiji’s dream of self-reliant rural India. 40 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 2. Sustainable Goat Production: Gandhiji’s Vision Mahatma Gandhi and his vision to create self-sustain and prosperous rural India is still relevant in the twenty first century. Creation of sustainable agriculture, judicious use of local resources strengthen rural economy and overall prosperity of farmers’ life are the key attributes of his vision. The Gandhi’s economic models are also focused on well-beings of human beings. Mahatma’s perception “The soul of India lives in its villages” holds very true in the present context since 70% population resides in more than seven and half lakhs of villages. Self- sufficiency of rural India means fulfilling the basic needs- food, clothing and other necessities, and sustainable rural development, wherein goats play a key role. Therefore, among livestock, goat is considered one of the most inclusive species. India has rich genetic resources with 34 goat breeds distributed in different ecologies and each one of them performing well in their habitats under optimum feeding, bearing natural resistance for diseases and climatic fluctuations. Goats, being primarily owned and reared by the marginal and small farmers are important among resource poor people for their sustainable livelihood and nutritional requirement. Demand for goat meat/mutton has increased with the increase in per capita income and other associated factors. The gap between demand and supply of goat meat/mutton will widen in future as meat demand may grow at faster rate than that of production. Goat milk, which is also known as natural functional food contributes 4% to central milk pool. Majority of goats in the country are reared under extensive production system and highly depend on common resources. Permanent pasture and grazing lands, the most important commons, are gradually shrinking. The improvement in share of goat ownership with marginal category by 2% between 2001 and 2007 has been recorded. Moreover, flock size per goat rearing households has shown increasing trends among all the categories of land holdings. Unit level data from 59th and 70th rounds of National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) (Land and livestock holdings) indicate that overall flock size has marginally increased between 2002 and 2013 and the goat rearing households have increased by 17% during the same period. Goat, popularly known as poor man’s cow, has now becoming a symbol of prosperity in the rural India. Goat has been found to be best alternative for supplementary income and milk for the rural people who are unable to rear cattle or buffaloes. Demographic change in livestock population in the country showed a shift in favour of small ruminant particularly for goat (Dixit et al. 2012).