 Similarly, the relative participation of women (remaining being men) in agriculture (overall), crop and livestock sectors was calculated as 38.7, 31.1 and 49.1%. A large variation was observed among states/ UTs both in participation and contribution by women. The participation of women (in per cent) in agriculture (overall) was highest in Himachal Pradesh (46.4), followed by Rajasthan (38.6) and Nagaland (37.5). In livestock sector, the participation of women (in per cent) was highest in Himachal Pradesh (39.3) followed by Rajasthan (29.4) and Uttarakhand (26.3). In eight states/ UTs, the contribution of women in agriculture (overall) was more than 40%. In livestock sector, the contribution (in per cent) of women was highest in Himachal Pradesh (70.9) followed by Gujarat (61.0). Drudgery reduction and vulnerability: Drudgery assessment of farm women in different Agro Ecological Regions -AER- of India revealed clusters of districts with high, medium and low level of Farm Power Availability (FPA). The clusters with high FPA (>2.03 kW/ha) belong to the region of agriculturally favourable (AERs) in Indo-Gangetic plains, Bengal basin, Kathiawar peninsula, Deccan plateau, Narmada, Tapi, Mahanadi, Godavari, and Krishna river delta. These clusters either had a perennial flowing river through it or were situated on a river delta with good quality alluvial, black clayey soil. All these factors lead to farmer taking multiple crops during a year, thus utilising mechanical means for timely farm operations. On other hand, clusters with low FPA (<1.00 kW/ha) belong to the region of agriculturally unfavourable AERs in Western & Eastern Himalayas; Malwa plateau, Eastern plateau, Bundelkhand plateau; Western plains, Assam plains, North Bengal plains; and North-east hills. All these factors cause low net sown cropped area and lower cropping intensity. Hence, the FPA in these clusters was low. The clusters with medium FPA (1.00 – 2.03 kW/ha) fall in portions of AERs that had a mixture of the favourable and unfavourable features, resulting in moderate agricultural needs. Assessment of drudgery in post-harvest activities of fisheries sector indicated that this sector was dominated by women as evidenced by their roles of cleaning, grading, processing and fish farming. Fish processing includes all activities from fish harvest until it reaches the consumer. Fish vending and processing are very tedious work and requires constant squatting or bending posture. Fisher women face constraints in fisheries Social Science icar annual report 2022-23 167 sector in various aspects like production, technical, economic, social, infrastructure, marketing etc. The major constraints faced are lack of water source, high cost of technology, lengthy and cumbersome procedure of getting credit, poaching, inadequate information to the beneficiaries, lack of special market etc.