 Algae is an ethnic food of high nutrient value and it also cures fever. Keywords: algae, aquatic, pond and rivers, sun Dhenkiya sag is mostly found under the moist and shady forest condition near to drains or rivers. Its tender leaves are boiled and used as local vegetable. Some people from Assam mix chickpea seeds, and tender leaves or flowers of pumpkin to it also. The Aadi tribe also prepares pickles from the flowers of pumpkin. Keywords: dhenkiya sag, pumpkin, pickle Unripe jackfruit is cut into small pieces and tender leaves of plants, such as neem, potato, tomato, pumpkin and broomstick are cut into small pieces. The mixture is boiled in water after adding methi (fenugreek), laung (clove) and chilli. This dish is enriched by Bengali community of West Tripura with fried beans of many local cultivars. This dish is mostly eaten Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3559 Preparation of ethnic food from nevine lem (Bauhinia longifolia) 3560 Preparation of curry from okung herb during April (Chaitra tnasha). There is a belief that after eating this dish, no disease or evil soul affects the person. This food is in vogue since time immemorial and it is considered good for health because there is no oil in it. Keywords: unripe jackfruit, fenugreek, clove, beans, chaitra masha The tender leaves of nevine lem {Bauhinia longifolia) are collected by women of Adi tribe of Pasighat area of East Siang district in Arunachal Pradesh. Collected leaves are immersed in water for 10 min Leaves are mixed with onion, garlic and local chillies and boiled for 5 min after adding many local spices. The prepared vegetable is very delicious and taken in lukewarm state. This curry is offered to guests and is prepared during festive occasions. About 60- 70% community members are using this ethnic food and it is in vogue since age-old times. Keywords: nevine lem, onion, garlic, chillies Leaves of local herb, called okung are collected from forest areas and washed with water properly. Big-size pieces are made and kept in water for 8-10 min and the leaves are taken out. This water is put in another pot, which is taken by aged members. In these pieces of leaves, onion, garlic, tnarsang (herb), green chilli and many other local spices are added (proportion of okung is 70% in the curry).