 • Stocking of advanced fingerling (~120 mm) would ensure better survival especially in reservoirs dominated by the large predatory fishes. Also, efforts should be made to remove large predatory fishes through repeated netting or with hook and line. • Some reservoirs covered under the study were struggling with low Fig. 5. Impact of fish stocking and yield of 34 reservoirs of Chhattisgarh Indian Farming November 2020 26 Fig. 7. Sensitization of culture based fisheries to the fishers of reservoirs Fig. 6. Trends of fish stocking and yield in Indirasagar reservoir, Madhya Pradesh of enhancement programs independently in respective reservoirs with no or minimal financial assistance in future. • Ecosystem based model for estimation of optimum density for sustainable fish production in reservoirs. • Understanding of ecosystem functioning of the tropical reservoirs for development of climate resilient reservoir fisheries. • Knowledge based management practices with adequate budgetary support in participatory mode. • Development of region specific management protocol by utilizing the information of ecological status and fisheries information. Conclusion CBF is a stock enhancement practice suitable for water bodies that do not support sustainable fisheries through self-recruiting fish populations. The present findings clearly indicated that stocking rate (1,000 nos./ha/yr) recommended by National Fisheries Development Board, India enhanced the fish yield, however, the impact on fish yield depends on habitat quality, natural productivity, size and management. Estimation of the potential fish yield and generation of basic data on fisheries and ecology are needed for each reservoir for optimising the stocking density and adopting reservoir specific management strategies. Scientific record of stocking and yield data is extremely important as time series data on stocking and production are needed for generating optimum stocking density. Awareness and training for the fishers and cooperative society members are recommended for the better fisheries management of reservoirs in terms of stocking, harvesting, marketing and profit sharing etc. to support the livelihood of fishers living in and around the catchment of the reservoirs. 1Principal Scientist and Head of Division, Fisheries Resource Management, 2,4 Scientist, Fisheries Resource Management,3 Scientist, Fish Nutrition and Biochemistry. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: uksarkar1@gmail.com launched developmental schemes. Moreover, time series data on stocking, environmental and climatic conditions prevailing will help in estimation of weather pattern influences on fish yield. • Application of remote sensing for delineating the effective water area will optimize the stocking rate as fluctuating water levels may cause massive mortality of the stocked species.