 Root rot symptoms in olive saplings at the end of the pathogenicity test (three months post-inoculation) under greenhouse conditions: (a) aerial part of a healthy plant (uninoculated control); (b–c) wilted leaves and stem desiccation in plants inoculated with P. schmitthenneri and P. palmivora, respectively; (d) leaf wilting and discoloration in a plant inoculated with P. irregulare; (e) healthy roots (control); (f,g) black discoloration, reduction in size and length of roots, and degradation of ﬁne feeder roots in plants inoculated with P. schmitthenneri and P. palmivora, respectively; (h) formation of necrotic lesions on roots of a plant inoculated with P. irregulare; (i–k) brown discoloration, desquamation, and necrotic spots on the collar; (l,m) detachment of outer root tissues, leaving only the central thin white ﬁbers. Agriculture 2025, 15, 435 9 of 15 Table 2. Results of pathogenicity test showing disease severity (%) on olive tree roots inoculated with pathogenic isolates after three months of incubation at 25 °C within glasshouse conditions. Species Isolate Disease Severity (%) Re-Isolation (%) Phytophthora palmivora BM11 92 c,d 100 Phytophthora plurivora ER-P10 92 c,d 100 Phytophthora acerina BK3 75 b,c 100 Phytophthora oleae MK-O14 67 b,c 100 Phytophthora cactorum ER-C7 50 b 100 Phytophthora gonapodyides BK-G1 50 b 100 Phytophthora megasperma KH-2 58 b 100 Pythium schmitthenneri F-PH3 100 d 100 Pythium aphanidermatum BM-23 58 b 100 Pythium irregulare BK-1 50 b 100 Uninoculated control _ 0 a _ Values with the same letter do not diﬀer signiﬁcantly at p < 0.05, according to Tukey’s test. Inoculated saplings displayed a range of symptoms, including root rot, vascular discoloration, and wilting. Speciﬁcally, aﬀected plants exhibited wilted leaves and stem desiccation. Their root systems were signiﬁcantly reduced in size, with shorter root hairs compared with non-inoculated control plants. Saplings that survived infection showed necrotic lesions on their secondary roots. However, the ﬁnal stage of infection, characterized by complete leaf desiccation, was not consistently observed. All ten tested species were successfully re-isolated from necrotic roots, thereby fulﬁlling Koch’s postulates. In contrast, no fungal isolates were recovered from control plants, which remained healthy throughout the trial. 4. Discussion This study is the most comprehensive investigation to date on Phytophthora and Pythium s.l. species associated with root rot disease in olive plantations in Morocco. The ﬁndings have allowed us to clarify both the symptomology and etiology of this emerging disease aﬀecting olive trees in various provinces, including Beni Mellal, Berkane, Errachidia, Fes, Meknes, and Khenifra. In all surveyed trees, the most frequent disease symptoms consisted of leaf chlorosis, defoliation, wilting, the greenish-grey discoloration of stem, branches, and collars, as well as root rot.