 TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 129 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 130 Market Places: The Application/Website also provides information on about various markets and e-NAM portal to the farmers. They can go through different options available to select the best possible rate they can get for their crops from the market and also find nearby mandis. Crop – Insurance: This feature helps the farmers to take benefit of Govt sponsored crop insurance schemes. Farmers will get details on the crop insurance and also get connected with the insurance company. They have to give detail of the crop to the insurance company and avail the insurance benefit. Your Products: Under this Tab, farmers can add the information on the produce available with them such as quality and quantity of the produce and availability date. This information will be displayed to nearby Anaj Mandi’s so that buyers can proactively contact the farmer for purchasing the produce. Figure 3 : SmartKheti App Display Conclusion : This product will improve the quality of life of the farmers on the day to day bases, there will be improvement in the farm yield, save the water, make the crops safer against Viruses and other diseases, save the labour cost and keep the Government authorities fully informed about the expected farm produce on district level. Thus a big impact on the farming sector as a whole. After attending a number of Kisan Mela’s, interactions with the farmers and discussions with State Government authorities like Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nādu, Jharkhand, Odisha etc., it was observed that a small farmer cannot afford an expensive tool so a low cost tool has been developed that is easy to operate. Smartkheti provides all these features. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Market Places: The Application/Website also provides information on about various markets and e-NAM portal to the farmers. They can go through different options available to select the best possible rate they can get for their crops from the market and also find nearby mandis. Crop — Insurance: This feature helps the farmers to take benefit of Govt sponsored crop insurance schemes. Farmers will get details on the crop insurance and also get connected with the insurance company. They have to give detail of the crop to the insurance company and avail the insurance benefit. Your Products: Under this Tab, farmers can add the information on the produce available with them such as quality and quantity of the produce and availability date. This information will be displayed to nearby Anaj Mandi’s so that buyers can proactively contact the farmer for purchasing the produce.