 Anonymous (1999c) 48 Seed treatment of groundnut with latex of Euphorbia for control of insect and disease Groundnut seeds are smeared with latex of Euphorbia spp. to avoid infestation by talkidi insect and ratada disease. Appromixately100 g of latex is required to smear 10 kg of seed. However, because of its stickiness, this treatment may not be popular with farmers now (Jamnagar, Gujarat). Sidabhai (1993) 55 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 49 Control of pest attack in Avare by seed treatment with red soil and ash Avare seeds are soaked in water for few minutes and then mixed with wet red soil and wood ash. They are sown after drying under sun. This prevents pest infestation during crop growth (Nilgiri, Tamil Nadu). Karthikeyan and Chandra Kandan (1996) 50 Treatment of fingermillet and sorghum by Ashwagandha and Datura for healthy seedling Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) roots 250 g and Datura (Datura metel) leaves 50 g are pounded well by adding water. This diluted mixture is sufficient for soaking 1 kg of seed. The seeds are dried in shade before sowing. Treated seeds produce vigorous seedlings, free from pests (Tarekere, Tamil Nadu). Mallapa (2000) 51 Seed treatment to deter insect and stray animals Seed of Ram tal (black sesame) are treated with juice of crushed leaves of kidamari (Aristolochia bracteata) and Arani (Clerodendrum multiflorum) to keep stray animals and insects away. It is believed that this treatment makes the plant poisonous (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Thaloda (1994) 52 Seed treatment to control wilt Use curd for seed treatment in pigeonpea/chickpea for 24– 48 hr to protect them against wilt disease (Gonda, Uttar Pradesh). Anonymous (2000c) 53 Control of kharia disease of paddy To control kharia, pigs are made to move through field. Sada Bahar plants are planted on a particular day in the fields early in the morning. Sometimes salt is sprinkled on the field. The efficacy of these methods remains to be seen (Faizabad, Uttar Pradesh). Maurya (1993b) 54 Control of early stem-borer in rice by spraying neem oil Spray neem oil at 0.2%, applied thrice after appearance of pest, i e one month after transplanting. The active ingredients (limonoids), particularly azadirachtin and meliatriol are known to work as pest repellent (Ganjam, Orissa). Das et al. (1999) 55 Neem leaves as nursery to control pest and disease In the paddy nursery site (before sowing of paddy seeds) neem leaves incorporate into soil and puddlle and allow them to decompose for two weeks. After this treatment paddy seeds are believed to become resistant to pest and disease (Pondicherry). Jeyarajkumar (2000-2001) 56 Control of earhead bugs in rice by use of Cycas Flowers of wild cactus, Sanramboo (Cycas cercinalis) are tied in a cloth and are placed in rice field to serve as repellent against earhead rice field to serve as repellent against earhead bugs (Nilgiri, Tamil Nadu).