 The mustard oil he uses is produced on his own field or fields of his relatives. Similarly, he produces most of the spices in his own field to ensure quality. He engaged his all family members, including two sons, son-in-law in pickle making and marketing. He has established pickle State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 135 factory in Rohtak, Haryana where he has employed 15-16 female labour. Currently his turn over is approx. Rs. 60 lakhs per annum. His labourers get handsome pay and his view of life is not purely commercial, but for welfare of the society. 2. Value Added Agro Based Product For Ensuring Human Health And Nutritional Security Mr. Kundan Kumar has established a brand “Tradifo” with product range of 25. The motto of Mr. Kundan Kumar was to create win situation for farmers as well as customers. He is providing good quality healthy food product directly from farmer to customer keeping seed quality, diversity and nutritional facts of the products in mind. His concern has developed technologies to minimize nutritive value during processing. The idea of Tradifo (shortened from ‘Traditional Food’) was conceived to provide healthy, natural and tasty assortment of food products in market while procuring the top quality of non-GMO raw materials sourced from - PGS Organic Council of India certified farms. Tradifo’s parent company KAD Bioresources Pvt. Ltd. was born under India’s Premier Agricultural Research Institute commonly known as PUSA Institute under business Incubation program promoting the use of innovative agricultural technology for agriculture based entrepreneurial ventures. Tradifo has also been awarded with seed funds from the Ministry of MSME, Government of India under the scheme of “Support for Entrepreneurial and Managerial Development of SMEs through incubators”. The Company’s objective is to add value to agricultural produce through innovation, quality control and technology management in farmers’ product. The brand Tradifo is synonymous with highest standards of food processing with procurement of chemical and pesticide free raw materials and no addition of preservatives or artificial flavoring. The mission is to give our farmers a fair share of their hard work and to promote sustainable farming as a social responsibility. Since the Company believes in conservation of nature, a sustainable supply chain for procurement of the raw materials has been adopted. This is aligned with the ideal of providing fresh and essential nutrients to consumers through a sustainable production, procurement and processing system. The products are available at more than 500 counter in Delhi and NCR as well as online platform like Amazon, Tradifo etc. The Company has established its own factory at B-259, Sector 4, Bawana Industrial Area, New Delhi-39 costing more than 40 lakhs.