 As far as distribution by state is concerned, Arunachal Pradesh has the highest number of orchids, namely 577 species in 147 genera, followed by Sikkim with 561 species in 144 genera, Meghalaya with 380 species in 113 genera, Nagaland with 387 species in 107 genera, Manipur with 314 species in 93 genera, Mizoram with 253 species in 86 genera, Assam with 231 species in 82 genera and Tripura has the least number of orchids, namely 39 species in 29 genera. Several species of orchids enjoy the status of state flower of the Northeastern states, for example, Rhynchostylis retusa (state flower of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh), Dendrobium nobile (state flower of Sikkim), Papiopedilum insigne (state flower of Meghalaya), Renanthera imschootiana (state flower of Mizoram). Rhododendrons are epiphytes, shrubs, trees and known for their beautiful flowers and foliage. They are found in the western Himalayas and in the Northeastern states of India. So far, 121 taxa have been recorded from India, of which 117 (98%) are distributed in the Northeastern states of India. The highest number of taxa has been reported from Arunachal Pradesh (106), followed by Sikkim (40), Manipur and Nagaland (10), Mizoram (4) and Meghalaya (3). The pink rhododendron Rhododendron campanulatum is the state flower of Himachal Pradesh and Rhododendron arboreum is the state flower of Nagaland and the official state tree of Uttarakhand. Out of the total 115 species of bamboos in India, nearly 90 species of bamboos are found in this region, out of which 41 are endemic to this region and several of them have ornamental value. Lilium mackliniae, the Shirui lily or Shirui Kashong Timrawon, is a rare Indian plant species found only in the upper reaches of the Shirui hill range in Ukhrul district of Manipur, India, at an altitude of 1,730 to 2,590 metres above sea level. This species is the state flower of Manipur. Hedychiums of the Zingiberaceae family make excellent ornamental plants; of the nearly 1000 species found in India, about 50% are found in the Northeastern states of India. Among non flowering category plants category of plants, ferns belonging to different groups can also be classified as ornamentals. Epiphytic species like Lycopodium phlegmaria, Selaginella spp, Nephrolepis sp. silver, golden and walking ferns, bird’s nest ferns including some tree fern species are among the crytographic plants that can be popularised as ornamentals. The Red Data Book of Indian Plants reports that of the 1500 endangered flowering plant species, 800 are from Northeast India. Suitability of agro-climatic conditions Geographical location, varying altitudes and myriad water bodies contribute to the diverse microclimates in the Northeastern states.