 Households that had higher IBI values retained an especially high number of kcal person−1 day−1; ranging from an average of 546 (SD: 279) kcal person−1 day−1 (for the bottom 25% of IBI) to an average of 2624 (SD: 1277) kcal person−1 day−1 (for the upper 25% of IBI) in rice and from an average of 531 (SD: 251) kcal person−1 day−1 (for the bottom 25% of IBI) to an average of 2641 (SD: 1365) kcal person−1 day−1 (for the upper 25% of IBI) in wheat (not shown). However, most households, including the bottom 25% of IBI values, did sell some rice to markets (see Fig. 2) and the FDPIs from sold produce was double for smallholders with high irrigation frequencies versus ones with low irrigation frequencies: 0.07 PPP$ day−1 and 0.15 PPP$ day−1. Intra-village insurance and exchanges are likely the source of these variations (Meghir et al., 2019; Townsend, 1994) and larger landowners may increase their consumption while poorer households need to sell produce to meet basic cash needs. Non-agricultural income in our dataset accounted for at least 50% of household income for most households (Fig. 2) showing that non- agricultural jobs complemented agricultural income streams and might provide resilience enhancing fallback options for climatic and social production shocks (Meghir et al., 2019). These findings are in line with the general notion of non-farm income sources becoming an increasingly important source for household food security (Pingali et al., 2019; Sugden et al., 2014) as the rural economy of the region is currently undergoing rapid structural transformation. And home consumption and in-kind trading are being replaced by increasing commodification, non-farm employment, and purchasing of food crops. A large literature exists on the dynamics of structural trans­ formations and its effects on the allocation of resources as well as household food security dynamics (Pingali and Sunder, 2017; Tomich et al., 2019; Webb and Block, 2012). Supporting the overall findings of our study, this body of research shows that increases in staple crop productivity and farm income do not necessarily go in hand with posi­ tive impact on poverty reductions and food and nutrition security. For example, supply and price levels of non-staple food sources may not keep up with increasing demand. Investing in non-staple value chains and production support is one potential way to increase the benefits of irrigation-led intensification. Doing so helps to maintain low price levels for more diverse diets while large farms improve their production and smaller farmers can seek increasing off-farm employment. 3.5. Policy implications and recommendations In this article, we find that small farm sizes substantially limit the income increases that farmers may gain from raising agricultural pro­ ductivity through irrigation-led intensification.