 Farmers were motivated by organizing Kisan melas, Sammelans, Gosthis, Travel Seminars, Group Meetings with Village Panchayats; releasing of five lakh residue management advisories; distributing extension literature; and delivering 22 Radio and TV talks. Besides, special Vad-Samvad programmes were also organized on DD Kisan Channel to highlight the issue for wider publicity. To demonstrate the benefits of crop residue management at multi-location strategic sites, as many as 1,200 live demonstrations were conducted in 4,708 ha to popularize the use of happy seeder, zero till machine, baler cum knotter and other residue management practices. Six Climate Resilient Villages (four in Punjab and two in Haryana) were made residue-burning free. It has also created impact in nearby 42 villages, where burning was very less. The farmers who are fully convinced for not burning crop residues for the last three years have also been taken in loop to motivate other fellow farmers to adopt various interventions of crop residue management. The KVKs of Punjab and Haryana are continuing their efforts and generating data from demonstrations for impact analysis and also preparing inventory of farmers who have managed crop residue successfully without burning so that good practices of composting of straw and use of crop residue management implements like happy seeder, zero till drill, baler cum knot maker etc. could be promoted among farming community on large scale. Research Application Research Institutes (ATARIs) upgraded the knowledge and skills of 5,362 staff of KVKs by arranging 100 capacity development programmes at various SAUs and ICAR Institutes. Besides, DEEs of AUs also organized 767 workshops and meetings for effective implementation of programmes of KVKs. The officials of these Directorates made 2,856 visits to the KVKs during scientific advisory committee meetings, field days, technology weeks, workshop/seminar, training programmes, etc. to review and monitor the activities of KVKs in the operational areas of respective Universities. They also made 2,679 field visits to review and monitor activities at farmers’ fields like on-farm trials, frontline demonstrations, farmer-scientist interaction, exhibitions, etc. These directorates also arranged and provided technological products like seed to 455 KVKs, planting materials to 168 KVKs, bio- products to 151 KVKs, livestock breeds to 73 KVKs, livestock products to 64 KVKs, and poultry breeds to 82 KVKs. The DEEs published 337 technology inventories for the benefit of farmers. Agricultural Technology Information Centre: Forty-seven Agricultural Technology Information Centres (ATICs) in the country served as single window delivery system by providing technology information, advisory services and technology inputs to the farmers. TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, DEMONSTRATION AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 115 In all, 7.