 (a) Each Institute of the Council shall have a Man- agement Committee consisting of the following members:- 1) Director of the Institute —Chairman 2) A representative of the State Government in which the Institute is located nomi- nated by the President —Member 3) A representative of any other State Gov- ernment concerned with the research in the Institute, nominated by the Presi- dent —Member 4) A representative of the Agricultural Uni- versity having jurisdiction over the area, nominated by the President —Member *5) Two non-official persons representing agricultural/rural interests, to be nomi- nated by the President —Member *(4) Inserted by the ICAR Society at its Special General Meeting held on the 2nd April, 1976 and approval accorded by the Government of India vide Ministry of Agriculture & Irrigation (Department of Agricultural Research & Education) letter No. 24(2)/76-CDN(l) dated the 17th April, 1976. New insertion in Rule 66 as Rule 66(a) (4). **66(a) (5) Two non-official persons representing agricultural/rural interests, to be nomi- nated by the President-members. The existing Rules 66(a)(5) to 66(a)(8) have been renumbered as 66(a)(6a) to 66(a)(9). 23 6) Four Scientists of Council's Institutes to be nominated by the Director-General —Members 7) A representative from the Council nomi- nated by the Director-General —Member 8) The Financial Adviser of the Council or Department of Agricultural Research and Education or the Accounts Officer of the same or another Institute, nominated by the President —Member 9) Administrative Officer of the Institute —Member-Secretary Provided that in the case of the Indian Agricultural Research Institute which is a deemed University un- der the University Grants Commission Act of 1956 and such other Institutes of the Council as may here- after be declared as deemed Universities, there shall be appropriate academic and management bodies as approved by the President. (b) The membership of the Management Commit- tee shall be regulated mutatis mutandis in ac- cordance with the Rule 6 to 11. (c) For the purpose of these rules, Institutes shall also include National Research Centre, Project Directorates, Bureaux or any other unit of the Council, as may be approved by the President. Powers and functions 67. The powers and functions of the Management Com- mittee shall include:- i) consideration of proposals for Five Year Plan and Annual Plan, ii) periodical review of progress of development schemes. iii) consideration of proposal for the annual budget, iv) consideration of items of expenditure which are beyond the powers of the Director of the Insti- tute.