 These regions were associated with improved immune systems and disease resistance, as well as production traits. The gene interleukin 2 (IL2) located on Chr17: 35217075-35223276 was identified as being linked to tick resistance. Additionally, a cluster of genes associated with heat stress was observed. For Tharparkar cattle, several candidate genes that have undergone positive selection were revealed in the analysis. These genes were associated with various traits such as milk production, reproductive traits, and health-related characteristics. Furthermore, research was extended to investigate investigation of copy number variations in Tharparkar cattle selection signatures in the MHC region and coat colour across various Indian cattle breeds. 2.9 Extra Mural Research (EMR) Projects Cultivation and Value Addition of Aromatic Plants for Livelihood Security of Farmers of Uttarakhand Region: The project focused on promotion and expansion of lemon grass (Cymbopogon flexuous) and palmarosa (Cymbopogon martinii) on an existing degraded land as an alternative crop for livelihood security. Study was conducted in two villages viz. Sadan- kheda and Datanu in remote tribal area of Kalsi block in district Dehradun. Also, at research farm Selaqui of the ICAR-Indian Institute of Soil and Water Conservation, Dehradun wherein 8 different cultivars of aromatic grasses were studied Lemon grass and palmarosa cultivars showed significant variations in growth, biomass and oil yield. Out of evaluated varieties of lemon grass, maximum survival percentage (97%) was recorded in Krishna and minimum survival percentage (92%) was recorded in Praman. Maximum herbal biomass was observed in Praman (3.097 gm/clump). Out of 4 varieties of palmarosa, maximum survival percentage (98%) Circos plot showing distribution of genes related to production traits Sequence to variant conversion and Quality Control 67 Salient Achievements of the Projects was recorded in Tripta and minimum survival percentage (95%) was recorded in Harsh. The maximum and minimum oil % was observed in Tripta (0.41%) and Harsh (0.31%) respectively. Maximum herbal biomass was observed in Tripta (0.820gm/clump). Capacity building of the farmers, field-based training programs were conducted towards cultivation and value addition of lemon grass. They were also trained for making lemon tea and incense stick from lemon grass and mushroom cultivation was done on spent biomass of lemon grass. Integrated management of Fusarium wilt tropical race 4-A devastating strain of banana: The project carried out the survey for the occurrence of Foc TR4 in different banana growing states of India. Development and validation of cheaper and user-friendly diagnostic kit for Foc–TR4 detection in plant and/or soil. Identified three different effective consortia of bioagents for the management of Fusarium wilt disease of banana.