 Price and income consumption curves, Engel curves Elasticity of demand-substitution and income effects, Application of IC analysis -rationing, taxation and subsidy. Theory of production and cost optimizing behaviour of firm, output maximization, cost minimization and profit maximization. Elasticity of supply-substitution, output and profit maximization and profit maximization. Elasticity of supply-substitution, output and profit maximization effects. Optimally approach for joint products. Market classification-pure and perfect competition. Behaviour of the firm and industry. Supply-demand functions. Imperfect competition, monopolistic competition, monopoly, duopoly. Pricing and output decisions. Pricing and output decisions. Price discrimination. Product differentiation applications. Micro and macroeconomic analysis. Working of macro- economic systems. National income accounting. Theory of employment-classical. Keynesian and post Keynesian theories of income determination. Optimal saving and investments. Theory of income distribution and factor shares inflation, deflation, inflationary gap, monetary policy and banking systems. Unit 2: Economic and Agricultural Development Concept of economic and agricultural development, characteristics of developing countries, dualism and development, stages and theories of economic development, economic growth models, neo- classical growth models, role of technology in development and choice of techniques, human capital and development, inequality, poverty and migration in developing countries, trade and development, capital and growth, development challenges in developing countries, role of state, markets and civil society in development, institutions and economic development, international development institutions. Objective and processes for economic planning in India, economic and trade reforms in India. Role of agriculture in economic development, theories of agricultural development, agricultural development challenges, planning and techniques for agricultural development, agricultural development, poverty and environment, application of institutional economics in agricultural development, institutional issues in natural resource management, agricultural policies (price, land, credit, R&D, trade, subsidy, etc.), role of innovations, investment and institutions in agricultural development, agricultural development programmes in India, issues of water, energy, environment, food and nutrition security, agro-eco -regional planning, assessment of ecosystem services, farm- non-farm linkages. Agricultural development in India, China, Latin America and East Asian countries. Unit 3: Public Finance and International Economics Public Finance: Public and private finance. General principles of public finance. Principle of maximum social advantage. Public revenue. Incidence of tax and financial policies. Public expenditure and economic development. Balanced and unbalanced budgets. Limitations of fiscal policies.