 The per capita availability of milk is 394 g day-1 and Punjab is at the top with an average availability of more than 1100 g. Apart from milk, Indian cattle also contribute towards draft power (30.77 million bullocks), and production of bio-manure, fuel, medicines and leather. The Indian cattle have capacity to withstand harsh climatic conditions making them economically 28 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR suitable and sustainable in their habitats. These unique attributes of some of the Indian breeds have been used in the Latin American countries, Australia and southern parts of United States for crossbreeding with Bos taurus for beef and dairy production. Few countries have imported selected indigenous breeds and are maintaining improved zebu breeds, viz. Gir, Kankrej and Sahiwal by Brazil, West Indies, Australia and Kenya, and Ongole breed by Brazil and Indonesia as purebreds for milk and meat. Considering the importance of Indian breeds, continuous efforts are being made by Govt. of India and ICAR for the genetic improvement of Indigenous cattle breeds through various breed improvement programmes. In 2009, cattle genome was fully mapped (Christine et al. 2009). 2. Gandhiji’s Views on Cow For Mahatma Gandhi “Cow” had very high place in life and spirituality as he said, “The cow to me means the entire sub-human world extending man’s sympathies beyond his own species”. Another symbol in the Gandhian proto-ecological worldview is the cow. Gandhiji also described “The cow is a poem of pity; One reads pity in the gentle animal. She is the mother to millions of Indian mankind. Protection of the cow means protection of the whole dumb creation of God”. He further stressed upon the importance of the cow by saying that “cow in India was the best comparison; she was the giver of plenty. Not only did she give milk, but she also made agriculture possible”. He added that “Mother Cow is as useful dead as when she is alive. We can make use of every part of her body-her flesh, her bones, her intestines, her horns and her skin. Well, I say this not to disparage the mother who gives us birth, but in order to show you the substantial reasons for my worshipping the cow”. He was staunch supporter of cow protection and Gauseva. He saw the emergence of cow protection in Indian religion as “one of the most wonderful phenomena in human evolution. It takes the human being beyond this species”. The protection of cows is a passion with Gandhi as he said, “I would not kill a human being for the protection of a cow, as I will not kill a cow for saving a human life, be it ever so precious.” He believed that cow slaughter can never be stopped by law. Knowledge, education, and the spirit of kindliness towards her alone can put an end to it.