 Simultaneously, BUAT Banda organizes trainings, conducts field day on low cost protected cultivation, and creates awareness among the farmers to adopt low cost protected cultivation technology at their fields and gradually progressive farmers of the Banda District have been showing their interest and started creating low cost protected infrastructure at their field for commercial cultivation and large dissemination. With this limited effort, some of the farmers are ensuring better yields, greater price and are saving their input resources (water, labour and fertilizer costs) year after year that helped them to uplift their socio-economic livelihood in the region. Advantages of protected cultivation yy It provides conducive micro-climatic conditions for production of high-quality vegetables and allows to grow multiple crops on the same piece of land in a year. yy It gives opportunity to fetch a better price of the produce by growing them in off-season. yy It supports well to easily raise nurseries of different Natural ventilated polyhouse Mist chamber Low tunnel Green shade net-house Hardening chamber Tomato seedlings under low tunnel Insect proof net-house Walk-in-tunnel Mulching Table 1. Different vegetable crops for Bundelkhand region in protected structures Protected structure Suitable crops Season Naturally ventilated polyhouse (NVPH) Cucumber, Tomato, Capsicum etc. August to April Green shade net-house Cucumber, leafy and root vegetables Last August to November and February to May (Cucumber) and April to August (leafy and root vegetables) Insect proof net-houses (IPNH) Capsicum, Cucumber, Tomato, Brinjal and cucurbits, etc. Round the year Plastic low tunnels Cucurbits Mid November to February Plastic mulch All vegetable crops Round the year Indian Horticulture 38 vegetable crops, hybrid seed production and also protects them. yy It increases the yield productivity with better quality and attracts enhanced return per unit resource invested. yy It provides alternative venture to cultivate the vegetables in non-growing areas such as high altitudes and deserts. yy It gives shelters from the wind, rain, snow, birds, hail etc. yy It promotes advanced agriculture techniques (hydroponics, aeroponics, vertical cultivation of vegetables). yy It also fulfils the demand of producing nutritionally rich and hygienically healthy vegetables due to lesser use of toxic pesticides. yy Required less irrigation due to moisture conservation. yy It facilitates effective control to pests and diseases and becomes easier to produce disease and insects’ free seeds of costly vegetables. yy It enables to develop propagation of elite planting material of different horticultural crops. yy Low cost protected structures are ideally suited for progressive farmers having small holdings. yy It is a labour-intensive technology and generates labour-employability at the source for educated youth.