 Change in productivity of (a) cereal crops (b) pulses (c) oilseeds (d) overall 3. Use of HYV (high-yielding varieties) 4. Use of fertilizers (NPK) (nutrient) 5. Use of FYM and other biofertilizers 6. Tractor/machinery 7. Change in economic indicators (in adopted villages) a. Net returns/ha/yr (by crop/enterprise) (%) (kg/ha) (%) (kg/ha) (kg/ha) (No.) (No.) Rs Annexure IX Extension Activities Undertaken (Last 5 years) (Numbers) SI No. Activity I Year II Year III Year IV Year V Year Total 1. Field Days 2. Agril. Exhibition 3. Farmers' Fairs 4. Radio Talk 5. TV show 6. Film show 7. Training materials produced (a) Pamphlets (b) Video-cassette (c) Slides 8. Farm Science Club organized 9. Mahila Mandals organized 10. Extension Training meetings organized 11. Any other 21 Annexure X Status of Research - Extension Linkages at the District Level • What kind of mechanism exists for local co-ordination of the front- line extension demonstration between the KVKs and the State Govt. • What is the frequency of Local Management Committee/Scientists Advisory Committee Meeting for KVKfTTC during the last 5 years. • No. of monthly workshops organized • Frequency and no. of staff participated in seminars at zonal, state and national levels. • Whether the local NGOs are involved in KVKsmCs Programmes • Whether the local Mahila MandaI or Farm Science clubs are promoted and have become visible in their activities. • A brief about the extent of contribution of the officials of various line- departments and joint programmes undertaken. 22 Annexure XI Impact of KVK on Farming Populaton (Questions given below may be administered to selected five farmers from the adopted villages and another five from non-adopted villages and appended with the report) 1. Name and address of farmers 2. Enterprises being practised 3. Enlist improved technologies being adopted under different enterprises at SI No. 2 above 4. When were these improved technologies received by you, and from where? 5. Enlist 10 latest technologies which have been received from the KVK in your village and furnish information on the following. SI No. Name of technology Extent of adoption in % (approx) Reasons for formal adoption 6. What should be the approach of KVK for training and better adoption of technologies in light of your experience at SI No.5. 7. Do you know the activities of KVK? 8. If yes, what are those activities? 9. Do you think that roles/ activities of KVK need some change? Yes/No 10. If yes, what are your suggestions? 11. Any other comments on the KVK 23 Appendix 1 Terms of Reference for Dr H.K. Jain Committee i. To conceptualize and evolve qualitative aspects of research ii. To develop a framework for incorporating qualitative aspects in the research projects in the ICAR system. iii. To develop parameters for evaluation of the relevance and qualitative aspects of research in the QRT reports. iv.