 Anti-bacterial activity of juice and aqueous extract of Luffa acutangula Roxb. (ridge gourd) and Tridax procumbens (ekdandi) at MASFU Zone of inhibition (mm) Extract Staphylococcus Staphylococcus Streptococcus Pseudomonas Proteus E. coli aureus epidermidis spp. aeruginosa spp. Ridge gourd Juice of fresh leaves - - - 10 - - Cold-water extract 11 11 - - 12 of fresh leaves Hot-water extract 15 16 - - 15 of fresh leaves Cold-water extract - - - - - of dried leaves Hot-water extract - - - - - of dried leaves Neosporin 16 16 - - 14 Ekdandi Juice of fresh leaves 5 - - 7 - - Cold-water extract - - - - - - of fresh leaves Hot-water extract - - - - - - of fresh leaves Cold-water extract - - - - - of dried leaves Hot-water extract - - - - - - of dried leaves Neosporin 18 - - - 12 (Plate 4) whereas in ekdandi group it showed presence of healthy granulation tissue with presence of fibroblast and proliferation of dermoid epithelium (Fig. 3 D &E). In Neosporin treatment group it showed the presence of inflammatory cells, juvenile capillaries and proliferation of fibroblast, indicative of formation of granulation tissue (Fig. 3 F&G). On day 21 the section of wound showed well- organized keratinized epithelium covering the granulation tissue in the wound treated with juice of ridge gourd (Fig. 3H) and ekdandi (Fig. 31). But granulation tissue covered with germinal epithelium and the keratinization of dermis was not evident in Neosporin treatment group (Fig. 3J) The overall result of histomorphological findings revealed early keratinization of epithelium of the wounds treated with juice of ridge gourd and ekdandi leaves and were comparable with Neosporin-treatment group, indicating better healing property of these herbs. In-vitro anti-bacterial activity: The juice of fresh leaves of Luffa acutangula Roxb i.e. ridge gourd (10 mm) and Tridax procumbens, i.e. ekdandi (7 mm) showed moderate anti- bacterial activity against Pseudomonas aeruginosa that marked antibacterial activity against Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis and E. coli was observed in cold (11, 11 and 12 mm) and hot (15,16 and 15 mm) aqueous extract of fresh leaves of ridge gourd against above indicator organisms respectively (Table 5). The juice of fresh leaves of ekdandi also showed antibacterial activity (5 mm) against Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Fig. 3. A. Ridge gourd (day 7); B. Ekdandi (day 7); C. Neosporin (day 7); D&E. Ridge gourd (day 14); F&G. Neosporin (day 14); H. Ridge gourd (day 21); I. Ekdandi (day 21); J. Neosporin (day 21) Staphylococcus aureus. The juice of ridge gourd and ekdandi leaves as well as aqueous cold and hot water extracts of fresh leaves of ridge gourd showing anti-bacterial potential were further tested at monthly interval. However, a month-old juice and aqueous extract did not show any anti-bacterial activity.