 Drought analysis Temporal variation of drought occurrences To investigate the occurrence of drought events and the fluctuation rate of dry and wet episodes, the annual average values of the time-series SPEI were plotted over the baseline period (Fig. 8). The SPEI showed a significant decreasing trend continuously over the baseline reference period. This indicated an increase in the magnitude of the intensity of droughts throughout the investigated timeframe. The SPEI values represent the degree of severity of the dry and wet periods over each grid cell for the time scale considered during the analysis. As mentioned in Section 2.3, positive and negative index values denote the occurrence of wet and dry events, respectively, and pro­ longed dry occurrences can lead to serious drought events that may severely impact crops and livelihoods. Identification of drought occurrences and statistics Fig. 9 shows the time-series pattern of temporal variation of dry and wet episodes based on the threshold values. They were used to identify major droughts and floods (Table 6). The most severely-to-extremely dry year from the list of detected major drought events was considered the worst-case drought scenario and used to further analyse the drought impacts. Spatial variation in drought occurrences The results of the Mann-Kendal-Sen’s slope estimator were used to investigate the magnitude of the changes in the extent of drought oc­ currences over each sub-basin in the GRB using the 12-month SPEI, as illustrated in Fig. 10. The negative results (lower values) showed a decreasing trend as the drought intensity increased, and such locations were at higher drought risk. Conversely, positive results (higher values) showed an increasing trend as drought intensity decreased, i.e. areas less vulnerable to droughts. The results showed that nine sub-basins out of twelve (around 75% of GRB area) observed decreasing (negative-SPEI) trend which indicated that such locations (sub-basins) represent the areas for higher vulnerability and increased drought risk during the past four decadal periods. Only three sub-basins (Sabari, Pravara, and Indravati) showed an increased (positive-SPEI) trend. This indicated that only 3 subbasins (around 25% of the areas) presented a lower drought risk and were less vulnerable to drought occurrences compared to other sub-basins. These results also correlate with the finding of increasing drought severity over the Pranhita, Manjra, Wardha, and Lower Gobadavri subbasins in the study conducted by Sarkar, 2022. To validate the results, we compared the spatial pattern trend of the time series of climate data with reputable national disaster databases (EM-DAT), which comprise essential core disaster data on the occurrence and impacts of over 22,000 major dis­ asters worldwide from 1900 to the present.