 They are given in jaundice and enlarged spleen. The bark is considered astringent and diuretic. A small deciduous tree or shrub, usually thorny; leaves variable in size and shape; fruit globose, 8-12 mm in diameter, dark purple or red with juicy pulp surrounding several small seeds. It is a native of tropical Africa and Asia. It is found in the sub-Himalayan tract and the outer Himalayas up to 4,000 ft, both in sal forests and in dry miscellaneous forests. It is common throughout Chhotanagpur, Deccan and south India in mixed deciduous forests. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2711 Use of aak {Calotropis gigantea) for cure of sterility Volume 2, supplement I, page 170 Aak Refer to ITK Code No. 474 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2673 Use of walnut leaves and barks for teeth and gum Volume 2, supplement I, page 171 Walnut Refer to ITK Code No. 753 2670 Use of bamboo leaves for treatment of pyrrhoea Volume 2, supplement I, page 171 Bamboo Refer to ITK Code No. 1583 Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2709 Driving away mosquito by using bherua (Chloroxylon swietenia) leaves Volume 2, supplement I, page 171 Bherua Refer to ITK Code No. 149 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 2708 Treatment of cough with jhau (Tamarix ericoides) Volume 2, supplement I, page 172 Jhau Gujarati: gajri; Hindi: jhau Tamarix ericoides Rottl. The leaves are cooked with rice and given to children to relieve cough. A decoction of the leaves is given for treating enlarged spleen. The galls are astringent. A handsome shrub, with erect, broom-like branches and dark- brown, vertically cleft bark, found mostly in the riverbeds in south India, extending northwards into Chottanagpur. Leaves minute, scale-like, ovate- lanceolate; flowers pink, in terminal racemes; capsules dull- yellowish white; seeds small with dirty-white hair. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages 2685 Treatment of stomach pain with Xylosma longifolium Volume 2, supplement I, page 172 Xylosma longifolium Assamese: mota koli, kata holi, katahar; Hindi: dandal, katari, kandhara, katpatra, sialu. Flower Contents Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications ETHNO-BOTANY AND AGRO-BIODIVERSITY : Xylosma longifolium Clos : An extract of the young and tender leaves resembles opium in action and is used with it in Assam. : A dioecious evergreen tree, up to 18 m tall and 2 m in girth, commonly found in shady ravines of the western Himalayas up to an altitude of 1,500 m.