 Keywords: crop rotation, wheat, ogala, maize Aadi tribes of Pasighat block in Arunachal Pradesh burn the organic materials and forest tree species (shrubs) for preparation of shifting land cultivation (jhuming). Burning increases soil temperature, which induces germination of many indigenous plants. It is generally observed that many of the new plant species are germinated after burning though not present prior to burning. Keywords: Jhuming, burning, dormant seed, germination Shurtin (Michelia doltsopais) tree is conserved by locals of Nagainga village of district Ukhrul in Manipur. It is grown on shifting-cultivation land and in kitchen garden also. From the leaves of this tree fertilizer is prepared and live fence is created against wild animals which checks soil and water erosion. Under the shade of the tree, a shade-loving crop is grown and a peculiar insect is reared on this tree, which is locally called khavang. This insect is used for curing asthama, which is sold @ Rs 10-15 per insect. Keywords: shurtin, live fence, shade, khavang, asthama When farmers fail to control the grazing of crops by wild animals, they fence the fields by rope made of ketki (Caesalpinia bonduc) shrub fibre. Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat, (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2822 Indigenous farming systems in Jhadol tribal area in Udaipur district of Rajasthan They cultivate ketki shrub near the fields. Leaves are kept in water for 15- 20 days (retting), and afterwards fibre is stretched from the leaves. From these fibres rope is prepared. The rope is tied with hedgerows around the crop field and farmers do timely maintenance. This practice is in vogue since 15 years and about 70% of farmers are following it. Keywords: rope, ketki, wild animals In the tribal area of Jhadol, the cropping system are well established as per the farming situation. This is a hilly tract with slopy and small fields. In this system, entire land is fragmented into small fields, which appears to be as table farming. Fields are surrounded with stone fencing along with Jatropha plants, which is an oil-seed crop and thus gives additional returns. On top of hill side, maize is cultivated, and at bottom where water accumulates paddy is grown in kharif and wheat under rainfed conditions in rabi. During kharif 1 or 2 rows of ambadi is taken on the border of maize fields.