 Besides these, two other centres of origin are Punjab, Kashmir, Pakistan and Afghanisthan region, and the Asia Minor region of Iran Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES and Turkey. From these primary and secondary centres, further progress of sesame took place along two lines: towards the east through China and Indo-China to Japan, and towards the west to the Mediterranean countries. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1444 Storage of pulses in bin or mora with neem and chatpata leaves Volume 2, page 231 Neem Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2145 Storage of blackgram and redgram seed with ash and dried neem leaves Volume 2, page 232 Neem Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 2153 Pulse storage by using groundnut oil or sesame oil Volume 2, page 232 Groundnut and sesame Groundnut: Bengali: chini-badam; Gujarati: mugphali; Hindi: mungphali, vilayati mung; Kannada: nela-gadale; Malayalam: kappalandi, nela-kadala; Marathi: bhui mug; Sanskrit: buchanaka; Tamil: nelakadalai, verkadalai; Telugu: nelasenagalu, verusenagalu. Groundnut: Groundnut, monkeynut, peanut Groundnut: Arachis hypogaea Linn. Groundnut: Groundnut kernels constitute a good source of vitamins of the B-complex group, particularly thiamine and nicotinic acid but are notably deficient in vitamins A, C, D and B12. Root nodules of the groundnut plant are rich Contents GRAIN/SEED STORAGE Geographical indications Branch Habit in riboflavin. The protein obtained from the leaves of the groundnut plant is adequate in all amino acids, except the sulphur-containing acids. Groundnut oil is a non-drying oil belonging to the oleo-linoleic acid group of oils. It is pale- yellow in colour with a nutty odour and bland taste. More than 200 compounds have been identified in the volatiles of roasted kernels. These include hydrocarbons, alcohols, carbonyls, acids, esters, pyrazines and others. Volatile compounds present in the aerial parts of the groundnut plant have been studied. Groundnut finds a wide range of uses not only in the daily life of the people but also in various industries. It is valued after simple processing such as roasting, as dessert and as a constituent of confections and snack foods. Groundnut milk is reported to be as good as cow's milk in promoting growth and may be given to infants aged 8 months and above. As a source of protein in mixed feeds for beef and dairy cattle, groundnut cake compares favourably with other vegetable proteins. Groundnut: A small, prostrate, diffuse or erect, branched, annual herb, 30-60 cm in height; leaves binate, alternate, with adnate stipules: leaflets 3.5-5.0 cm x 2.0-2.5 cm, oval to oval-obovate; flowers yellow, ephemeral, axillary.