 Looking at its potentiality, Government of India has been promoting this crop in order to bridge the gap between consumption and domestic production of edible oil. In comparative terms, yield of palm oil is 5 times the yield of edible oil obtainable from traditional oilseeds. ICAR has provided A bearing tree of oil palm under Indian conditions Achievements in Horticulture in Independent India 125 technological impetus with improved varieties, good planting material, irrigation and proper management strategies. Three tenera hybrids with high oil yield were developed that are being cultivated in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Goa with yield potential of 7-8 t oil ha-1 yr-1. Recently, dwarf high yielding hybrids with production potential of 6-7 t oil ha-1 yr-1 have also been developed. Five new seed gardens have been established in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Mizoram with annual production potential of 35 lakh sprouts. Further, technology for oil palm hybrid seed production was standardized to produce quality tenera hybrid seeds. With all these efforts, oil palm has spread to an area of 3.31 lakh ha in 15 states by 2019. 3.1.8. Technology-led import substitution As per the statistics of Seednet, GoI, 2019, India imports 7 lakh apple, 1 lakh Kiwi, 2 lakh date palm and 1 lakh oil palm planting material every year. Therefore, ICAR has been laying stress in technologies to substitute this import. To that effect, low chill apple and peach varieties have been developed; technologies for cultivation of exotic fruits like walnut, durian, kiwi, dragon fruit, passion fruit, avocado, etc. have been standardized and are being commercially adopted, multiplication technology for date palm has been developed and oil palm hybrids suitable for our subtropical regions have been bred. Similarly, in flower crops, varieties suitable for polyhouse cultivation of rose (Arka Swadesh,) and gerbera (Arka Pink) have been bred to substitute imported planting material saving the cost of production. 3.1.9. Post-harvest management of mango enhanced income of tribal farmers of Odisha Post-harvest treatment of mango and their marketing after packaging Artificial LED lighting for off-season production of dragon fruit Indian Agriculture after Independence 126 In eastern tropical regions of India, mango is the leading fruit crop and shares about 1/5th of total area and production of mango. Among eastern Indian states, Odisha covers the largest area under mango (2.1 lakh ha) but its productivity is the lowest (4.0 t ha-1). Mango is also being cultivated by tribal farmers of Odisha, however substantial post-harvest loss (20%) primarily due to improper ripening, fruit fly infestation, and post-harvest diseases like anthracnose and sooty blotch causing huge economic loss to growers. ICAR started a training and handholding the farmers of the region.