 It is not possible to theoretically evaluate the bias because of the confounding between indicators and hunger. It may be possible to evaluate the bias empirically only through large data sets; 4. There is a problem of multiple counts with no remedy as individual values are not known; 5. GHI is not available at the micro level (e.g., under 5 mortalities at district and lower levels not known); 6. Strangely, GHI ignores lack of access and anxiety, though this is how hunger is defined. Following the importance of the work, ICMR constituted an Expert Committee of eminent Statisticians, Pediatricians and Public Health Experts to review the suitability of indicators used in the GHI. The Expert Committee in its unanimous Report observed that GHI does not measure hunger per se and ranking countries using GHI is not appropriate. A White Paper also appeared in ICMR Journal highlighting these results. The findings were presented on request in different organizations like DWCD, NAAS, NITI Aayog and PMO and were approved. Alternatives to GHI: ‘Zero’ hunger is one of the very important goals of sustainable development goals. Good quality survey- based data are required which would capture access and anxiety through indicators with a direct bearing on hunger. Presently, available options are as follows: Survey based behavioral responses on access and anxiety: FAO’s Food Insecurity Experience Scale (FIES); USAID’s Food and Nutrition Technical Assistance (FANTA) based Food Access Survey Tool (FAST) and its modified version (MFAST) by the IASDS. Both FAST and MFAST seek answers to 9 questions on behavioral responses from individuals/ households experiencing food insecurity. MFAST study is based on the following questions: 1. The family ate few meals per day on a regular basis; 2. Obligated to eat non-preferred food; 3. Sometimes food stored in the house ran out and have no cash to buy; 4. Worried frequently about where the next meal would come from; 5. Needed to purchase food frequently (because own production or purchased food ran out); 6. Took food on credit from local store; 7. Needed to borrow food from relatives/ neighbors to make a meal; 8. Needed to borrow food to meet social obligations; 9. Members of the household who had to skip the meal due to lack of food are i. working adults, ii. House-wife, iii. Both, iv elderly persons and v. children. Questions 3-9 together gives data for food insecure households. Question 9 gives individual level hunger. It reflects severe form of hunger. Questions 3-4 give anxiety. 221 Social Issues and Sports Indicators having a direct bearing on hunger These may include dietary intakes of important food stuffs like cereals, pulses and fats & oils and other major sources of energy, protein and micro-nutrients.