 Robust technique of association for genome wide case-control study: Analysis of SNPs and haplotypes offer a promising new research avenue for finding ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 132 SOCIAL SCIENCE association of genes with complex diseases. Prospective and retrospective likelihoods are two common approaches used to study this association in SNPs. A method based on preliminary test was proposed for SNPs, which is more efficient than prospective approach by exploiting model assumptions of Hardy Weinberg Equilibrium (HWE) and robust against failure of model assumptions as compared to retrospective approach. Association analysis using haplotypes is also gaining importance. Model-free and model-based methods are the two commonly followed approaches for the analysis of haplotype data. A preliminary test estimator for the analysis of haplotype data was proposed by utilizing model free and model based method. insecurity in the state. Estimating the sub-state level estimate of socio- economic indicators of Uttar Pradesh using small area estimation techniques: The disparities among the households both rural and urban areas with their standard of living in the state of Uttar Pradesh for different household categories such as land holding size and social group categories were studied. The district-wise estimates of average household monthly per capita consumer and expenditure (MPCE) as well as the measure of reliability (defined by the per cent coefficient of variation of the estimates) were produced for different household categories for rural and urban areas. In the latest available 2011–12 Household Consumer Expenditure Survey data, a total of 5,916 rural and 3,102 urban households from the 71 districts of Uttar Pradesh were surveyed. The district sample sizes for rural areas ranged from 32 to 128 with average of 83. Similarly the district sample sizes for urban areas varied from 30 to 128 with average of 44. The district specific sample sizes reduced further in case of further disaggregation such as district by land categories etc. Therefore, it is difficult to generate reliable district level direct survey estimates with associated standard errors from this survey. This small sample size problem was resolved by using small area estimation (SAE) approach. District-wise estimates of MPCE were also obtained for both rural and urban sectors of Uttar Pradesh using SAE method. District-wise maps of average household MPCE (living condition) for both rural and urban sector of Uttar Pradesh were also produced. The results clearly indicated the disparities within the state with respect to different household categories. The results also identified the regions and household categories with low and high MPCE estimates.