 For promotion of goat rearing, KVK conducted short duration training for farmer farm women and rural youth considering the importance of goat rearing and its future for meat and milk. Likewise group meetings and seminar also conducted in which more than 250 farmer farm 356 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 women and rural youth participated. KVK focused on two aspects i.e. up-gradation of local breed and introduction of semi stall fed goat rearing as commercial venture of goat farming. For up-gradation of local goat, KVK introduced Osmanabadi for milk and meat purpose. Osmanabadi breed is more suitable in both backyard as well as semi-stall fed goat rearing. Initially KVK reared the goat at KVK farm and made available the goats as well as breedable bucks to the beneficiaries. Self Help Groups (SHGs) were involved for promotion of the goat farming. Various activities were conducted to the SHG members besides demonstration of new breeds, preparation of homemade concentrate feed and introduction of some fodder crops. KVK introduced the up-gradation of goat concept in more than 40 villages with more than 26 Osmanabadi goats unit having capacity 10 +1 started among the rural youth. Similarly village Chinchpur was adopted for complete replacement of the existing breed with Osmanabadi with the help of SHG members. Under NICRA project Osmanibadi bucks are provided among the farmer for increasing weight gain and twining percentage in rainfed area. Outcome: Due to up-gradation of goat programme, more than 3500 goats were up-graded during last 5 to 6 years period. Due to this up-gradation, average weight gain has been increased by two to three kg. per goat besides increasing the twinning by 65 percent. Due to KVKs intervention more 118 stall fed goat-rearing farm units started with average 10 to 25 goats/ units. Every family is getting additional income of Rs. 20 to 30 thousand per annum With this intervention, gain of 20000 to 25,000 kg. meat and 1300 kids per annum to the farmers resulted in more than 70 to 75 lakh additional income to more than 14000 goats. On an average increase of Rs. 1400 to 1500 per family due to up-gradation of goat and semi stall fed goat rearing. Impact: One hundred and eighteen rural youths and women are self-employed in last year due to semi stall-fed goat rearing. These units are providing the good quality breed able bucks and goats to other farmers for starting goat units and upgradation local non-descript goats. 357 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 17 Manipur Manipur is often described as “A Little Paradise on Earth” with diverse agro ecologies. Out of total geographical area of 22,327 sq km, 90% area is under hill tract and rest is central valley. The gross cropped area account for about 16% of the total land areas and the about 66.64% of the gross cropped areas is utilize for paddy cultivation.