 Important varieties of straw berry are ‘Sweet Charlie’, ‘Festival’, ‘Chandler’ etc. Straw berry is propagated through runner and best time for planting is November. Livestock The livestock and poultry shed need be repaired before winter, so that they can be protected from inclement weather (cold wind). The sides of the shed may be covered with polythene sheet or gunny cloth to obstruct the flow of wind. Shady trees around the shed should be trimmed. The livestock are needed to be fed silage, hay, edible tree fodders as well as chopped paddy straw (3-5 kg) daily to sustain the milk production during rabi (cold) season. Farmers are suggested to provide artificial heat source to their newborn piglets and poultry chicks during rabi season, if needed. Disease surveillance and monitoring network to be established. List out the endemic diseases of birds (species wise) in the district and store vaccines for those diseases. Timely vaccination against all endemic. Ensure de-worming of livestock (cattle, goat, sheep and pigs) immediately after rainy season. Livestock farmers are suggested for regular supplementation of mineral mixture @ 50-60 g/day/ adult cows and calcium to the lactating cows @ 60-80 ml/day/cow. Suitable bedding (paddy straw, dry grass, wheat bhusa, saw dust, rice husk etc.) to the depth of 4-6 inches in large animals and 2 inches for smaller animals should be provided on puccaa (concrete) floor. Bathing of animals with cold water during winter should be avoided Hairs of animals should not be clipped during winter. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 239 All the farmers are requested to contact KVKs at district level for any kind of advisories. Fish Farming Pond construction, pond preparation and pre stocking management of fish culture needs to be completed by the rabi season. During pond construction one should not dig out a pond in upland. Before construction one may perform soil testing at Krishi Vigyan Kendra. Location with Silt loam soil, less sandy and soil with higher water holding capacity are suitable for pond construction. Ideal soil for pond construction needs to have Nitrogen 30-50 %, Phosphorus 6-16%, Organic Carbon 1-2%, Calcium carbonate 5% and pH 6.5-7.5. In case of old pond, removal of pond muck is most essential as a measure for pre stocking management during this season. De-silting of pond bottom has to be done every 3 years for better release of nutrients for higher fish growth. Liming is done to correct the pond soil pH by applying initial dose/ basal dose as per existing value of soil pH. Monitoring of fish health and behaviour, feeding intensity are to be done on regular basis. The water quality parameter has to be checked regularly as most of the diseases prevail in winter season.