 • Long term tillage experiment in millet‐sunflower system at Bangalore revealed that adopting zero tillage continuously, zero tillage followed by conservation tillage • Based on the four years results it was concluded that minimum tillage proved better than other tillage practices in respect of weed biomass, grain yield and economics in pearlmillet‐ wheat system under alluvial soil conditions. www.icar.org.in 82 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management • In maize‐wheat system (Palampur) zero tillage in maize and conventional tillage in wheat in combination with atrazine in maize and clodinafop fb 2,4‐D in wheat increased the yield of both the crops. • At Jorhat in rice (DS)‐blackgram system, conventional‐conventional tillage system in both the crops was superior in reducing weeds and producing higher yields. • In maize‐sunflower system at Coimbatore and Hyderabad conventional‐conventional tillage system reduced the weeds effectively and obtained higher crop yields. • In rice‐wheat system, at Pusa conventional and bed system was superior to zero tillage system. At Hisar minimum‐zero tillage and at Raipur no significant influence of tillage treatment was noticed. • Soil solarization in summer months was effective in reducing weed flora and obtaining higher yields in maize‐groundnut, bajra‐wheat, brinjal‐peas, okra‐tomato, okra‐wheat, rice nursery, baby corn, sunflower‐okra. Long term herbicide trial • At Anand, in the permanent herbicidal trial, potato tuber yield was not significantly influenced by different weed management practices. However, the highest potato tuber yield was recorded under application of fluchloralin (1.00 kg/ha) enriched with 10 t FYM/ha. Dry crop biomass was also higher under same treatment. Grain yield of succeeding pearlmillet crop was also not significantly influenced by continuous application of fluchloralin @ 1.00 kg/ha with or without 10 t FYM/ha. • Pre‐emergence application of butachlor 1.0 kg/ha +2, 4‐D 0.5 kg/ha with addition of organic manure @ 5 t/ha in rice and application of isoproturon 1.0 kg/ha + 2,4‐D 0.5 kg/ha rotated with pre‐emergence application pendimethalin 1.0 kg/ha in wheat in rice‐wheat cropping system, at Raipur, • At Sriniketan, butachlor @ 1.0 kg/ha at 3 DAT fb. post‐emergence application of 2, 4‐D (Na) or 1 HW at 30 DAT or Pretilachlor @ 1.0 kg/ha at 3 DAT fb. post‐emergence application of 2, 4‐D (Na) or 1 HW at 30 DAT in rice ; rotational application 1.0 kg Pendimethalin/1.0 kg Isoproturon (pre‐em) in mustard. IWM in individual crops Rice: • Drum seeding of rice along with sesbania in alternate rows was found effective in reducing weeds at Bangalore and Coimbatore. • In upland rice, intercropping with cowpea and application of butachlor 1.05 kg/ha was effective at Banaglore , Palampur, Jorhat, Pusa, Ranchi centres. • Transplanted rice, almix 4 g/ha and Oxadiargyl 70 g/ha were best herbicides at Pusa, Jorhat, Raipur, Hyderabad, Banaglore.