 Continuous adoption of mono cropping may lead to issues such as poor utilization of available resources, low monetary gain, emergence of new diseases, pests and insects in the crops and inadequate adaptation to changing climatic conditions. The prevailing mono cropping or single cropping systems has resulted in drastic changes in soil fertility indicators. To achieve better crop productivity and increase profitability, it is necessary to adopt alternate cropping systems that can address aforesaid issues. Further, introduction of new crops and cropping systems and cutting- edge production technologies can potentially strengthen farmers. Alternate efficient cropping systems can enhance farmers’ income by increasing yield, improving drought resilience, increase water and nutrient budgeting through efficient resource management, boosting resistance to pests and diseases and also increase of biodiversity and enhanced nutritional and food security. Crop diversification can enable farmers to gain access to national and international markets with new products. Diversification in existing cropping systems can have important nutritional benefits for farmers in the country and support them in making self-reliant in terms of food production. Addition of high value crops in diversified cropping systems in place of mono cropping can manage price risk to the greater extent in the market. However, at the same time, profitability of the farmers shall sustain itself. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: laxman.meena@icar.gov.in Availability of high-yielding varieties/hybrids and increased irrigated facilities have resulted in the (Volume Il) development of production-intensive cropping systems in several parts of India, and this has catalyzed further agronomic research based on the cropping-system approach. Many changes have also taken place in the crop-production technologies. And this necessitated the revision of the earlier publication brought out in 2002. The revised textbook is in two volumes: First is covering Foodgrains and second is on Commercial Crops. The discipline of Agronomy has no longer remained mere field trials without application of discoveries emanating from the related disciplines of Genetics, Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry, Plant Biochemistry, etc. The future Agronomy Landscape will face challenges of climate change, transboundary issues, TRIPS and other trade-related barriers, biotic and abiotic stresses, consequences of biotechnology and genetic engineering and increased market demands in terms of quality assurance, customized food crops, global competition, ecosystem services on land and social equities etc. The Agronomy must measure up to these futuristic challenges with well-defined metrics and methodologies for performance. The advent of hydroponics, precision farming, bio-sensors, fertigation, landscaping, application of ICT, GPS and GIS tools and micro-irrigation is in the horizon.