 Genotype X environment interaction and stability analysis. 17 Unit 5: Genetic Engineering and Biotechnological Tools in Plant Breeding Somatic hybridization, micropropagation, somaclonal variation in vitro mutagenesis. Artificial synthesis of gene. Genetic and molecular markers, generations of molecular markers and their application in genetic analyses and breeding. Molecular markers in genetic diversity analysis and breeding for complex characters. Gene tagging, QTL mapping and marker aided selection. Genome projects and utilization of sequence formation. Vectors. DNA libraries, DNA fingerprinting, DNA sequencing. Nuclei acid hybridization and immunochemical detection. Chromosome walking, Recombinant DNA technology, Gene cloning strategies. Genetic transformation and transgenics. Antisense RNA, RNAi and micro RNA techniques in crop improvement. Unit 6: Plant Breeding for Stress Resistance and Nutritional Quality Genetic basis and breeding for resistance to diseases and insect-pests. Breeding for vertical and horizontal resistance to diseases. Genetic and physiological basis of abiotic stress tolerance. Breeding for resistance to heat, frost, flood, drought and soil stresses. Important quality parameters in various crops, their genetic basis and breeding for these traits. Role of molecular markers in stress resistance breeding: MAS, MARS and MABB. Unit 7: Plant Genetic Resources and their Regulatory System; Varietal Release and Seed Production Plant exploration, germplasm introduction, exchange, conservation, evaluation and utilization of plant genetic resources. Convention on Biological Diversity and International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture. Intellectual Property Rights. Biodiversity Act. Plant Variety Protection and Farmers' Rights Act. System of variety release and notification. Types of seeds and seed chain. Seed production and certification. Unit 8: Statistical Methods and Field Plot Techniques Frequency distribution. Measures of central tendency, probability theory and its applications in genetics. Probability distribution and tests of significance. Correlation, linear, partial and multiple regression. Genetic divergence. Multivariate analysis. Design of experiments- basic principles, completely randomized design, randomized block design and split plot design. Complete and incomplete block designs. Augmented design, Grid and honeycomb design. Hill plots, unreplicated evaluation. Data collection and interpretation. 1.2 ECONOMIC BOTANY & PLANT GENETIC RESOURCES Unit 1 : Plant Taxonomy and Biosystematics Nomenclature, purpose, principles and systems of classification; Taxonomy of higher plants, floras, manuals, monographs, index, catalogues and dictionaries, herbaria; Concepts of biosystematics, evolution and differentiation of species; Biosystematic and taxonomic tools; Origin, evolution and biosystematics of selected crops (rice, wheat, rape seed & mustard, cotton, pigeonpea).