 To maintain rice productivity and the sustainability of natural resources, it is necessary to implement alternate establishment methods due to issues such as declining water tables, workforce shortages during peak periods and worsening soil health. The oldest method of crop establishment, direct seeded rice (DSR), is becoming more and more popular because of its minimal input requirements. It provides a number of advantages, such as labour cost reductions, a decrease in the amount of water and manpower, early crop maturity, low production costs, improved soil conditions for succeeding crops, decrease in methane emissions, and more alternatives for being the best match in different cropping systems. Comparable yields in DSR may be achieved by putting different cultural practices, such as choosing the best cultivars, planting at the right time, using the appropriate quantity of seed, controlling weeds and always keeping the field moist. Keywords: Aerobic rice, Conservation agriculture, Water saving, Weed management Indian Farming 73 (09): 11-14; September 2023 R ice is one of the most significant food crops in the world, and fulfils the requirement of more than 50% of the global population. In the eastern part of India, 18 M ha of cultivable land is dominated by rice-based production systems which cover about 42% of the total area of national rice production systems. In India, rice is cultivated in traditional way where 20–25 days old seedlings are transplanted in main field. This method of rice cultivation has deleterious effects on the soil environment as well as succeeding wheat and other upland, crops and atmospheric environment through emission of methane gas. Additionally, this technique uses a lot of energy and is expensive, which makes the production system less economical. Therefore, it is suggested that alternate method of planting such as direct seeding should be adopted instead of conventional transplanting to reduce the water and labour demand, which would ultimately decrease the cost of production. Day by day increasing water scarcity, high water requiring nature of rice cultivation and increasing labour cost trigger the search for such alternative crop establishment methods which can increase water productivity. DSR is the only viable option to reduce the wasteful water flows. This article discusses the justifications for DSR adoption, several direct seeding techniques, potential advantages, challenges and solutions. What is direct seeding rice (DSR)? Direct Seeded Rice (DSR) describes the process of growing rice from seeds sown in the ground as opposed to transplanting seedlings from a nursery. Direct seeded rice is seen to be most productive, environmentally friendly and financially feasible rice production systems used today. Since 1950s, it has been recognised as the primary way of growing rice in countries that are developing.