 2022 High-density planting of mandarin at Akola (Maharashtra) High-density planting of sweet orange at Akola (Maharashtra) High-density planting of sweet orange at Tirupati (Andhra Pradesh) Nut crops: Almonds and pistachios are excellent options due to their ability to grow in dry environments and their high market value. Vegetable crops: Certain vegetables like onion, tomato, chili pepper, bittergourd, bottlegourd, ridgegourd, spongegourd, watermelon, roundmelon, longmelon, snapmelon, drumstick, cluster bean, cowpea, amaranth, brinjal, and okra are suitable, as they have shorter growing cycles and require less water compared to other vegetable varieties. Techniques like mulching and drip irrigation can further enhance their water efficiency. Flower crops: Tuberose, chrysanthemum, crossandra, marigold, jasmine and aster along with ornamental cut flowers like rose, carnation, gerbera, tulip, lilium, alstroemeria, orchid and anthurium have path to dryland horticulture. Medicinal and aromatic crops: Isabgol (Gujarat Isabgol-1 and Gujarat Isabgol-2), aloe (Aloe vera), senna (Anand Late Selection), Egyptian henbane (HMI-80-1), palmarosa (Rosa Gross 49a), lemongrass (NLG 84), and vetiver (Hyb 8) can be commercially cultivated in dryland areas to boost income through crop diversification. Spice crops: Cumin (GC 4), fennel, fenugreek (Ajmer Fenugreek-4), sesame, ajwain (Ajmer Ajwain 93), and nigella (Ajmer Nigella 20) can be cultivated in a multi- story cropping system along with fruit crops to further boost farm income. Perennial crops: Olives, moringa, and agave are suited because of their deep root systems that enable them to access water from deeper soil layers. They also provide long-term income sources with less frequent replanting needs. Indian Farming 45 January 2025 Annual crops: Melons and squash, which have shorter growing seasons, can be integrated into dryland systems, especially when paired with water-efficient practices. Agroforestry and multi-cropping systems: Agroforestry, combining trees, shrubs, and ground crops, optimizes land use and boosts income. For instance, pairing fruit or nut trees with crops like aloe vera and ashwagandha enhances productivity. Local adapted varieties: Using locally adapted or indigenous crop varieties that have evolved to survive in arid environments is a key strategy in dryland horticulture. These crops are often more resilient to local pests, diseases, and climatic extremes, making them a sustainable choice for long-term cultivation. Climate-smart crop choices: Priority should be given to crops developed for climate resilience, such as drought-tolerant varieties from breeding programs. Examples include sorghum, pearl millet, and drought- resistant pulses like chickpea and cowpea, which can support horticultural systems. Cultivating high-value crops: One of the key strategies in dryland horticulture is focusing on high- value crops like fruits, nuts, and vegetables.