 Millet farmers frequently succeed in enhancing the physical and chemical characteristics of the soil for sustained productivity by: • Using organic materials, such as compost, vermicompost, farmyard manure and bio- fertilizers, to preserve soil organic matter and deliver nutrients. • Using cover crops to recycle soil nutrients and biologically fix nitrogen from the atmosphere. • Planting green manure legumes in situ or using green leaf manuring and incorporating them into the soil. • Intercropping or growing multiple crops simultaneously. • Rotation of crops. • Management of crop residues Shifting cultivation of millets in hills/tribal areas Tribal communities in Arunachal Pradesh practice shifting cultivation, also referred to as “slash and burn.” With this farming method, two or three yearly crops can be produced before the field is abandoned until the trees have recovered sufficiently to allow for a second filling. This cycle repeats until the area is so depleted of soil that there is no longer any hope for forest growth. Millets, notably finger millet, small millet, foxtail millet, proso, kodo millet, pearl millet, and sorghum, make up the majority of the crops grown on lands. Along with millets, commercial crops like red gram, horse gram, castor, plantain, and turmeric are also grown. A variety of millet varieties, including finger millet, foxtail millet, pearl millet, barnyard millet, little millet and sorghum are broadcast on hill slopes during the summer, and paddy seeds are typically sown as the monsoon season approaches. Vegetables and other crops are also grown at the same time. Since they do not use any chemical pesticides or fertilizers, tribal farmers do not need to take any action to control pest and diseases. By default, all aspects of jhum production fall under organic farming. Slash-and-burn techniques are frequently used to clear the land; trees, bushes, and forests are cut down by slashing, and the leftover flora is burned, adding potash to the soil as it burns. Hill soils are more susceptible to soil erosion and other natural processes because of the slope and topography, which lowers soil fertility. Additionally, in hilly places, animal dung is a crucial source for repairing and sustaining the fertility of these soil. By virtue of a symbolic connection, animals have continued to be a crucial component of diverse farming systems in the hills. Integrated paddy, fish and finger millet cultivation The paddy, fish, and finger Table 1.