 The increase in chickpea area is attributed to assured irrigation, which is critical for crop growth and good harvest. In kharif crops, highest increase in cropped area was observed in bajra (149%), followed by moong and gwar. Adopted farmers started growing high value crops like fenugreek (methi) and isabgol for better returns. Yield on adopted farms also increased significantly. Among rabi crops, highest increase in yield was for chickpea (43%), followed by R&M (12%) and wheat (6%); while in kharif crops, yield increase was highest for bajra (41%), moong (38%) and gwar (15%). The yield obtained on adopted farms was statistically significant than that achieved on non-adopted farms Structural transformation, regional disparity and institutional reforms in agriculture: The pace of diversification within agriculture was studied in 17 major states for the period 1991–2016. The share of allied sector in total agricultural output was used as a measure of change and the norm of absolute values (NAV) indices were used for this purpose. NAV is measured as half of the sum of change in share between the initial and final years for a given state. The results showed higher level of diversification in Jammu and Kashmir, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, with the indices ranging between 0.15 and 0.20. On the other hand, allied sectors contributions were low in West Bengal, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Asom, i.e. the indices for the states were lesser than 0.05. Despite output growth, the share of agriculture in total output and employment continued to decline. More importantly, there had been an absolute decline of around 55 million agricultural workers, which include farmers and labourers between 2004–05 and 2015– 16. Considerable decline in farmers was noted in Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Bihar and Rajasthan. Decline of agricultural labourers was notable in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh. This withdrawal, together with higher wages in nonfarm sector and the employment guarantee programme MGNREGS, has raised the farm wages significantly. Wage growth has accelerated to 7.6% a year in agriculture during 2005–16, from 3.5% during 1981–2005. The trend could have implications on working expenses in agriculture, resulting in reduced profits. This provides a scope of mechanization in agriculture that would offset the demand for labour.