 To quantify the burden of AMR in food-producing animals and aquaculture through structured surveillance, ICAR in cooperation with FAO initiated a Network project known as Indian Network for Fisheries and Animal Antimicrobial Resistance (INFAAR). INFAAR is currently operational through 18 organizations (15 ICAR institutes and 3 State Agriculture Universities) in 20 centers (9 centers from fisheries and 11 from the livestock sector) spread across the country. Under the Fisheries component, the fish and shrimp samples were collected from 35 districts of India covering 11 states. A total of 1,037 farms were sampled and 1,037 fish/ shrimp samples were analysed for isolation of E. coli, Aeromonas/Vibrio sp, Staphylococcus aureus and Coagulase-negative Staphylococcus (CONS). During the study, 1,753 bacterial isolates were recovered from freshwater fish, comprising 628 isolates of E. coli, 11 isolates of Staphylococcus aureus, 560 isolates of Staphylococcus sp and 554 isolates of Aeromonas sp. Similarly, a total of 896 bacterial isolates were recovered from shrimp and marine fish, comprising 245 isolates of E. coli, 73 isolates of S. aureus, 217 isolates of Staphylococcus sp, 247 isolates of Vibrio sp and 114 isolates of V. parahemolyticus. In E. coli strains, the highest AMR was observed against ampicillin (36%), enrofloxacin (30%) followed by amoxicillin/clavulanic acid (25%) and cefotaxime (25%). Resistance to cefoxitin (indicative of methicillin resistance) was observed only in 8.5% of the S. aureus isolates. Higher resistance (31%) to cefoxitin was observed in CONS as compared to S. aureus isolates (8.5%). Vibrio parahemolyticus isolated from shrimps and marine fish was mainly resistant to cefotaxime (54%), ampicillin (47%) and cefoxitin (43.9%). However, Aeromonas species isolated from freshwater aquaculture ponds showed a low level of AMR to most of the antibiotics. The data generated by INFAAR will lead to the identification of strategies to prevent and reduce the emergence and spread of AMR in aquaculture and food animals. National Surveillance Programme for Aquatic Animal Diseases: The National Surveillance Programme for Aquatic Animal Diseases (NSPAAD) operated in the country for the last seven years which is being implemented by ICAR-NBFGR through 31 collaborating centers and with the financial support of the National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB), Government of India, has been successful in the strengthening of passive disease surveillance in the country.