 The assistance received from Dr Nirmal Chandra, Senior Scientist, Vivekananda Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan, Almora; Dr (Ms) Niva Bara, Scientist, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi; Shri Sanjay Kushwaha, Technical Officer, ZC Unit, Jabalpur; Shri Sunil Kumar Sinha and Shri Vikas Jain, both Research Associates and Ms Seema Naberia, Senior Research Fellow of the Lead Centre in compiling this Document is appreciated. (P D AS) New Delhi Deputy Director-General (AE) 4 December 2003 Preface vii T HE Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) under National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP) have sanctioned a Mission Mode project on “Collection, Documentation and Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITK)” in June 2000 for a period of three and half years. As indicated in the title, the project envisaged collection of information of the practices related to agriculture and allied aspects based on indigenous knowledge and its documentation, and validation of the ITKs. Information on ITK were initially collected from secondary sources and documented in 2002 in a 411-paged publication entitled Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture– Document 1. Subsequently, information on ITKs from primary sources were collected through advertisements in national and local dailies. These were documented in two publications, viz., Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture – Document 2 ( page 680 ), and Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture–Document 2 (Supplement 1) in 226 pages. Experimental validation of the ITKs, selected by the group of Zonal Leaders and approved by the ITK Information Committee was initiated in 2002. The ITKs thus selected for validation have been subjected to experimentation and results obtained so far from 111 ITKs have been incorporated in this Document. Formulation of the technical programme and monitoring the progress of validation was done by the 9 Zonal Technical Coordination Committees (ZTCC), chaired by eminent scientists. The respective Zonal Leader acted as Member- Secretary of the concerned ZTCC with the researchers as the members. The research on validation was carried out by the scientists of ICAR institutes and State Agriculture/ Animal Science Universities. The detail of the ZTCCs are indicated below: Introduction Zone Chairperson of ZTCC Zonal Leader Zone I Late Dr K.N.K. Chouhan, Head, Department of Mr Z. D. Kavia, Principal Scientist, Extension, Central Arid Zone Research Institute,Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur, Rajasthan Jodhpur (Rajasthan ) Zone II Dr R. Kadirvel, Vice-Chancellor, Tamil Nadu Ms Geetha Rani, Senior Scientist, Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, MS Swaminathan Research Chennai, Tamil Nadu Foundation, Chennai (Tamil Nadu) Zone III Dr K.L. Bhowmick, Dean Post Graduate Dr Anupam Mishra, Zonal Studies (Retd.