 Brood rearing and pollen stores in ferocious Apis mellifera colonies were higher as compared to moderate and mild colonies. Bee Diseases, Enemies and Selective Breeding Almost all jet-black drones of Apis mellifera matured sexually between 18 and 22 days, yielded more semen (2 µl), while golden yellow drones matured after 22 days. The black drone yielded less semen (0.5-1.2 µl). Purified Thai Sac Brood Virus (TSBV) of A. cerana was found disintegrated/ disorganized into circular discs and tubes under electron microscope within six months of storage even at –20°C. Antiserum was prepared with a satisfactory titre (1 : 200) in immuno double-diffusion gel tests. EFFICACY OF M. ANISOPLIAE WITH IMIDACLOPRID TO WHITEGRUB Metarrhizium anisopliae (isolate Ma-4) alone and with 3 doses of Imidacloprid (20, 15, 5 ppm) was tested in soil against the second instar of Holotrichia consanguinea. Complete grub mortality occurred within 11 to 17 days when grubs were exposed to M. anisopliae treated soil along with 10 and/or 5 ppm of Imidacloprid 70 WS; 26 days were required for causing the same level of mortality when test fungus alone was used. MEDIUM FOR METARRHIZIUM MASS PRODUCTION A technique for conidial as well as mycelial mass production of M.anisopliae has been standardized in Network Unit, All-India Network Project on Whitegrubs and Other Soil Arthropods, at the Agricultural Research Station, Durgapura, Jaipur. For conidial production, crushed maize-grain substrate with 50% moisture, filled in polypropylene bags (PP), was found the best, yielding 2-3 ×109 conidia/g dry grain substrate. And highest mycelial yield of 21.85 g dry mycelia/litre of Sabouraud’s dextrose broth with yeast extract (SDY) was harvested, using shake-culture technique. Propagule size more than 250 µm that exhibited highest conidiation compared with lower size particles on rehydration. HIVE PRODUCTS Royal-jelly production Artificial (synthetic) plastic royal jelly cell cups pre-coated with bees wax 72 hr after grafting during October-November showed 80.9% mean acceptance of larvae of less than 24 hr age combined with priming with royal jelly. A simple, cheap and light-weight royal-jelly collector has been designed and developed that works on running tap-water and does not require electricity for operation. Its efficiency of jelly collection is 93.3%. Propolis production Maximum deposition of propolis was recorded by scrapping from the upper surfaces of top bars of frames coupled with wooden splinters in between inner cover and brood chamber, followed by in slits of plastic queen excluder used as propolis screens. Propolis collection was negligible during winter while mean propolis deposition ranged between 1.0 and 13.4 µg per colony per month. CROP IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 47 Small and fresh fish attracted 28-35 wasps/day and big and fresh fish attracted only 14 wasps/day. Rotten fish attracted less number of wasps.