 Genetic resources of this tree species have not received much attention due to limited awareness towards its economic potential and being a tree of forest or marginal lands. As no organized commercial cultivation of Mahua is undertaken at present, there is not much demand for planting material and trees are naturally grown by seeds. Recently, vegetative means of softwood grafting with 70-80% success, grafting with 70% success and veneer grafting with 90% success has been reported. Conservation of vast genetic diversity of Mahua needs use of both in situ and ex situ strategies. Mahua seeds have been reported as short lived, desiccation sensitive and highly recalcitrant in storage behaviour. Seeds were desiccation sensitive as at critical moisture content they showed decline in viability to 40%. Seeds desiccated to 37.7% moisture content lost germinability by 11% and those desiccated to between 14 to 16% moisture content lost germinability by 90% of the original. Ex situ conservation using cryopreservation of embryonic axes is an important alternative for this tropical tree species bearing highly recalcitrant and large seeds. It has been amply emphasized that cryopreservation is the only means currently available for long-term ex situ conservation of genetic diversity of recalcitrant seeded species. For further interaction, please write to: S K Malik, Tissue Culture and Cryopreservation Unit, National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources, Pusa Campus, New Delhi 110 012. Corresponding author e-mail: skm@nbpgr.ernet.in; skm1909@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 38 Devendra Pandey*, Shiv Poojan and Devanand Giri CISH-Bael-1: New cultivar with thin shell Bael (Aegle marmelos Correa.), which belongs to family Rutaceae occupies a special importance in Indian tradition and culture. Owing to its wider adoptability and unique medicinal vis-a-vis nutritional value and religious importance, it is greatly valued in Hindu religion where its fruits and leaves are used as important offering for lord Shiva. This article discusses CISH-Bael-1, a new thin shelled variety of Bael. C ISH-Bael-1 is a selection from open pollinated seedlings especially identified for its very thin shell. This is a mid-season maturing selection in which fruit attain maturity during April-May. Trees are tall with vigorous growth and dense canopy having erect growth habit. The tree is precocious and prolific bearer. Fruit shape is oval to oblong, measuring the fruit size as 15.00 cm in length and 39.2-41.0 cm in circumference with a average fruit weight 1.00 kg/fruit. Fruit colour turns to attractive lemon yellow on ripening. Fruits have very thin shell with a thickness of 0.12-0.15 cm which can be easily removed to obtain a dark yellow pulp of pleasant flavour with least mucilage and seed content. Seed number varies between 45 to 60 seeds per fruit with seed to pulp ratio 1:206 which demonstrate an excellent pulp recovery preferred for juice industry.