 It is one of the ancient domesticated annual crops having diploid chromosome number and C4 photosynthesis. In India, the cultivation is mainly confined to Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, and to some extent grown in Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. It is extensively used as grain or flour for meal purpose while straw for fodder. Foxtail millet is mainly grown as rainfed crop in Bihar on upland condition. At present its cultivation is practiced on a limited area for household consumption due to low productivity and lack of marketing. Therefore, there is a need to expand the area of cultivation besides increasing its productivity with improved agronomic practices. Keywords: Bihar, Crop management, Foxtail millet, Varieties Indian Farming 73 (12): 11-12; December 2023 F OXTAIL millet (Setaria italic L.) is a C4 annual cereal crop with slender, erect, leafy stems capable of growing up to a height of 90–180 cm, good as food for human consumption and fodder for cattle. Eastern Asia is considered to be the centre of origin of foxtail millet. It is recognized as a nutri-cereal and each 100 g of grains contain 6-8 g fibre, 12.3 g protein, 60.9 g carbohydrate, 4.3 g fat, 31 mg calcium,, 2.8 mg iron and can provide 331 KCal energy. It can be grown in tropical as well as in temperate regions. But in India, it is confined to dry-lands of tropics in marginal lands as it has the tolerance to drought condition. It is considered as a remarkably drought tolerant crop and its water use efficiency is also been found to be higher than maize, wheat and sorghum. Generally, small and marginal farmers of Bihar cultivate local varieties of foxtail millet with sub-optimum level of management practices. Crop production is greatly affected by climatic factors (rainfall and temperature), soil factors and cultural practices, viz. sowing date, seed rate, spacing, sowing technique, weed management and harvesting methods. Among the various management factors, non-monetary inputs like time of sowing, spacing and variety selection plays a vital role in increasing its productivity. Climate and edaphic requirement Foxtail millet is well grown in Jamui, Samastipur, Sitamarhi, Seohar, Muzaffarpur and Kaimur districts of Bihar. It is grown during kharif season. The average annual rainfall is 1200 mm and therefore, it is generally grown in upland condition. Although the crop is grown in wide range of soil types but it responds well in sandy loam soil with good drainage facilities. Soil pH varies from 7.5 to 8.3 for its cultivation in Bihar. Suitable varieties recommended for Bihar A list of foxtail varieties recommended for Bihar are given in Table 1. Land preparation and sowing Foxtail millet should be sown in line with well prepared seedbed free from weeds. Land should be prepared with one ploughing followed by one to two harrowing with blade harrow. Thereafter planking should be done Indian Farming 12 December 2023 to break the clods as well as to level the fields.