 During this pandemic Covid19, Bharat Biotech did extensive research and produced Covaxin, 1st indigenous Covid Vaccine. Bharat Biotech has Biosafety level-3 manufacturing facility—1st efficiency trial in India was also done by Bharat Biotech Pvt. Ltd. Also conducted third phase Covaxin trial in the world with full manufacturing facility in India. Bharat Biotech has done a number of clinical trials and have published more than 80 research papers in high rate journals. Transformative ideas needed to be addressed are: technology where is 179 Health and Good Living global competition is (in CRISPR (gene editing technology) Chinese are going very aggressively and they are at number one even though the technology was developed by US; China has already done gene editing in 60 crops with CRISPR); need to protect our germplasm that is critical and we should have material transfer agreement before sharing material with others; more focus required on increasing productivity and while establishing export-oriented units emphasis should be on export crops based on the market demand. (We need not focus on mango only but we should also grow pomegranate, guava also for exports). Value-addition and market intelligence is important. Key takeaways Entrepreneurs can compete globally through branding their products. Radical thinking is the key to innovation. Technologies of genetic modification and gene editing would facilitate better and environment resilient crops. 180 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series TRADITIONAL WISDOM NUTRITION Atul Jain Indian Civilization has prospered for thousands of years by depending on natural, seasonal foods based on the ancient wisdom and the wealth of knowledge of nutrition. There has to be a balanced approach towards Body, Mind, Soul and intellect. Nutrition is not only for body but is equally so for soul. Rishis emphasized the importance of food as what we consume affects not only our physical body but also our state of mind – i.e., the functioning of our brain, our thinking, emotions, etc. In fact, our food habits impact our total personality as the saying goes “Jaisa Ann waisa Mann”. In India tradition (Utsav) is related to food and food is related to Utsav both are related to each other and we call it Poshan Utsav. Presently, when we talk about nutrition-sensitive agriculture to produce nutritionally rich foods, to create dietary diversity and food fortification for overcoming malnutrition and micronutrient deficiencies we need to think what we were utilizing traditionally. The overall objective of the nutrition-sensitive agriculture is to make global food system equipped better to nutritionally enriched products. Nutri cereals millets are lately included in the food — traditionally we were regular eater of this. During celebrations (first menstrual cycle, marriage, pregnancy) songs sung were to spread knowledge Shri Atul Jain is the General Secretary of the Deendayal Research Institution, Chitrakut.