 Total land under millet cultivation In terms of cultivable land for millets, it was observed that in Gutru village, almost 50% of farmers are growing millets in 40 to 80 dismil (Table 1). Similarly, in Soso village, maximum farmers (43.9%) are growing millets in 40 to 80 dismil. Whereas in Khaksitoli village, more than 60% of farmers are growing millets in > 80 dismil area. This leads us to the fact that more than half of the farmers cultivating millets are medium or semi- medium category and the rest half fall into the category of marginal or small farmers. Table 1. Land (Dismil) under millet cultivation Land for millets Gutru Soso Khaksitoli <40 dismil 26.7% 33.2% 12.0% 40-80 dismil 49.6% 43.9% 27.2% >81 dismil 23.7% 22.9% 60.8% Millet based traditional food knowledge Each region has its own traditional food habits. Traditional foods are those which are locally accessible by indigenous communities and can be prepare by utilizing their traditional knowledge in the natural environment. This survey results demonstrated that 100% of rural and farm women from selected villages have knowledge about their millet based traditional foods. Specifically, Madua Chilka and Dhuska routinely prepared by 80% women, 10% making laddoo, gatha and 10% making halwa, sev etc. Diversity in use of millet In millet crop, ragi (Finger millet) is one of the major crops also known as ‘Madua’ in local language holding significant importance as a traditional millet crop in rainfed farming system of Jharkhand state. In order to rejuvenate the consumption of finger millet in the daily diet of tribal individuals in the state, a wider range of recipes that cater to their preferences adding diversity and value to the specific dietary needs of the population is required. scientist from KVK Ranchi, experts from IFFCO, and local leaders evaluated the dishes. The participants’ recipes were evaluated on 9 points for seven different parameters such as appearance, taste, texture, flavour, creativity, ease of preparation, and overall acceptability. The scores for each quality were total and averaged. The top five winners from each contest were declared based on the judges’ scores. Throughout the competition, every detail regarding their dish, including the components used, the preparation process, the mode of consumption, etc were recorded and the recipe contest scorecard was also assessed. e Awards and recognition: At the end of event, prizes were distributed on the basis of the scores awarded for different parameters along with knowledge variability on cooking and processing. The top five winners from each contest were declared based on the overall scores. The chief guest of the program presented the prizes and a certificate of achievement to the winners. Judging and prize distribution during the contest e Documentation: The various recipes were compiled under different categories into traditional millet recipes, innovative millet dishes, and desserts.