 In addition to these public EAS provisions, several private players are also emerging mainly through information and communication technology (ICT) platform. They disseminate agro- advisories, livelihood and health related information and disaster warning to farmers through voice and text messages, audio and dial out conferences, local cable TV, All India Radio, print media, WhatsApp and field based programmes and trainings. At present they have more than 10 lakh beneficiaries in Odisha. These initiatives can supplement the public extension service provision and help in bridging the information gap among farmers. The study assessed the source-wise access to EAS and its effects on technical efficiency of rice producing farms in Eastern India using Rice Monitoring Survey data for the year 2015–16. The study area included four states, viz. Bihar, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh (Eastern part) and West Bengal. The technical efficiency estimates revealed that farm households having access to EAS operated at comparatively higher level of technical efficiency than those without access to EAS. Technical efficiency was highest in farm households having EAS access from public, private and media sources (0.71) followed by Delineation of broad typologies within aspirational districts In both the typologies, land holding size had a significant negative impact on the probability of shifting from cultivation to livestock while the square of land owned was positively related. The results also indicated that in typology-1, holding the job card reduces the probability of shifting to livestock as the sole source of income. Also, an educated farmer has greater tendency to diversify his farm with livestock. In typology-2, when a farmer holds ration card, the household will be reluctant in shifting to livestock for his earning. Also, household size was a significant driving force responsible for farmers shifting to other source of income. Further, shifting towards non-farm enterprises was significant and positively related with the pucca home structure and was negatively influenced by land area possessed. This indicated that if the land under cultivation SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 112 households having EAS access from public and private sources (0.69). The results indicated that pluralistic EAS provision can have a synergistic effect on farm technical efficiency. Technology foresight in agriculture: The total number of patents registered in agriculture increased over the period. A region-wise comparison of the share of patents in agriculture showed that Asia accounts for the largest share of patents filed in agriculture (82.9%). The highest share of patent of Asia could be attributed to growth in number of patents filed by China. CRISPR-Cas9, TALENs and ZFN offer easier way to do cisgenic breeding (no-foreign DNA). This could be a ‘disruptive technology’ and will require a reassessment of governance, law and policy regarding its use.