 Onion is grown twice in a year, and the technique of onion cultivation of Nimar is called as kalilka pyaz, i.e. budded onion. There are six major steps involved in this cultivation technique: (1) Nursery phase which starts from December, (2) Nursery seedlings maintained till April, when small buds are formed, (3) Uprooted the seedlings having buds and dry them under the shade of tree, and after drying collected the healthy seedlings with buds (Kalika), (4) Keeping those seedlings in well-ventilated store and shuffling done time to time, then (5) In August where the intensity of rains is reduced then these seedlings again re-transplanted in the fields, and finally (6) In October, these small buds become full grown onion bulbs and however, farmers get the maximum price for that (Nimar, Madhya Pradesh). Tomar et al. (2002) 25 Grafting in apricot In the Nubra valley of Ladakh, scions of apricot (sweet types) are grafted over bitter forms of wild apricot. This job is carried out by three to four experts (free of charge) in a village. Local technique is known as Kalam and Dambu. In ‘kalam’ half lamina along with the petiole is inserted into the peeled part of the stock and the removed bark is then used to secure the union. A two to three year old seedlings. In this case a cut is made in the bark at the point of bud with a deliberate slow rotatory movement and the entire Verma (1998) 166 HORTICULTURAL CROPS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference piece of cylindrical bark is removed much like the cap of a pen. It is then rewrapped and secured so that the petiole region of the scion is properly united with the stock. Protection of two to three vital veins in the petiole region is regarded as essential for the success of this graft. The use of peeled off bark as a piece in Kalam and Dambu displays local wisdom for providing moisture to the grafted union. The use of the half leaf lamina is checked against possible damage to the union due to strong blowing wind, a common phenomenon in the region (Nubra Valley, Himachal Pradesh). 26 Cow dung as crop protective chemical Arecanut seedlings in the nursery stage are faced with pest menace. It may be spots, or small insects. Mixing of cowdung and spraying this slurry over the seedlings once or twice a week is found to be an effective control measure. Pumpkin or ashgourd grown in the backyard are found to attract monkeys and thus saving the vegetables from them till harvesting, is a problem. Cow dung is found to be the answer for that problem too. Coating of pumpkin or ashgourd, with the cowdung slurry is found to be effective in keeping away monkeys (Shimoga, Karnataka). Basavanagadde (1999) 27 Control of sucking pests in vegetable crops by spraying with palm juice The vegetable crop is more likely to be attacked by sucking pest like white fly, aphids etc. These pest usually attack the plant at its flowering stage.