 Furthermore, this initiative can be operated and managed by Women’s Self-Help Groups (SHGs) and farmers’ groups at the village level on a community basis. By empowering local women and farmers to run these small-scale VHUs, the initiative fosters community involvement and collaboration. These locally managed hatcheries can provide timely access to healthy chicks, not only to the operators but also to nearby farmers. Indian Farming 74 (11): 28-31; November 2024 This community-driven approach enhances the self- sufficiency of rural areas, supports local economies, and promotes sustainable poultry farming practices. Types of hatchery units Hatcher-cum-Setter: This type of unit combines both the setting and hatching processes in a single machine, making it convenient for small-scale operations. Separate setter and hatcher: In this setup, the setter incubates the eggs initially, and the hatcher completes the process. This type allows for more control and efficiency, especially for larger operations. Both types of hatchery units are suitable for village- level hatchery units. The choice between them depends on your specific requirements and capacity. Operating a hatchery unit Incubation: Hatching eggs refers to the production How to establish a village hatchery unit? In today’s technology era, high-quality and fully automatic hatchery machines (incubators) are readily available in the market, which can be easily operated by farm women and rural farmers with some initial training. These incubators come in various capacities, ranging from 50 to 10,000 eggs. All the hatcheries are suitable for different types of eggs such as Kadaknath, desi hens, ducks, and quail. The main difference lies in the type of egg tray and incubation period for each type of egg. The essential requirement for the establishment of the hatchery unit is proper clean space, consistent power supply, and a reliable source of fresh fertile eggs and space for brooding. Indian Farming 29 November 2024 of baby chicks. To sustain poultry farming, hatchery operations are a crucial component as many poultry breeds do not naturally hatch their eggs in sufficient numbers. The key factors necessary for successful incubation are temperature, humidity, gaseous environment, and egg turning. Maintaining an optimal and uniform temperature inside the incubator is essential for satisfactory results. The incubator temperature should be kept as recommended by the manufacturer, typically ranging from 99.5-100.5°F (37.2- 37.8°C) for forced draft-type incubators and about 1°F higher for still-air incubators. Lower temperatures slow down embryo development, while higher temperatures accelerate it. Prolonged abnormal temperatures can adversely affect hatchability by increasing embryonic mortality and producing weak or deformed chicks. Humidity in the incubator also impacts hatchability. Dry and wet bulb thermometers are used to measure humidity.