 He was using solar unit for maintaining inside temperature of poultry house, maintained 2 boxes for bee keeping, vermicomposting of crop residue and animal waste and also obtained FSSAI licence for small fruit processing unit. Presently he is earning more than Rs. 5,00,000/- annually with a B:C ratio of 7.78 [Validated by ICAR-RC NEH, Manipur]. ii. Oyster mushroom cultivation: A farmer is profitably running a mushroom unit in West Siang district, Arunachal Pradesh. He has been successful in producing 18Kg fresh Oyster mushroom from 20 paddy straws with a biological efficiency of 90%. On an average he earns an additional income of Rs. 4,80,000/- annually from mushroom cultivation [Validated by ICAR-RC NEH, Arunachal Pradesh]. iii. Backyard poultry (Vanaraja): A farmer of West Siang, Arunachal Pradesh, reared Vanaraja poultry under semi-scavenging system (birds allowed to scavenge and housed at night in low cost shed). Due to limited resources, he could not increase birds number beyond 50 but generated an income of Rs. 71,000/- after investing a sum of Rs. 20,000/- with B:C ratio of 2.5 [Validated by ICAR-RC NEH, Arunachal Pradesh]. iv. Three progressive farmers of Lower Dibang Valley, Arunachal Pradesh, started backyard Vanaraja poultry. They could produce 6000 fertile eggs and distributed among 25 fellow farmers. Now, 50 farmers are practicing this less capital intensive and sustainable economic returns and livelihood oriented enterprise in the district. The venture has generated average annual income of Rs. 1,12,500/- [Validated by KVK, Lower Dibang Valley, Arunachal Pradesh]. v. System of Rice Intensification (SRI) for Paddy Cultivation (Rice var. Shahsarang): This technology involves single seedling transplantation of young seedlings of 10-14 days old instead of the conventional method of transplanting with multiple (3-4 seedlings/hill) State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 41 and mature seedlings (40-45 days old) from the nursery. Adoption of SRI technology for cultivation of Shahsarang paddy variety in 0.5 ha area has resulted in better productivity with B:C of 2.69 as compared to traditional method paddy cultivation (B:C ratio of 1.57) [Validated by KVK, Ri Bhoi, Meghalaya]. vi. Crop diversification with Pea cultivation in rice fallow raised and sunken beds (Var. Prakash): Adoption of diversification of crops by increasing the cropping intensity with cultivation of pea in raised and sunken beds in rice fallows provides substantial benefits to subsequent paddy crop. The main advantage of cultivating pea crop is the increase soil fertility through nitrogen fixation. The technology was adopted by the farmers of Ri Bhoi, Meghalaya, to generate additional income from uncultivated fallow paddy field through pea cultivated during lean season with B:C of 2.9 [Validated by KVK, Ri Bhoi, Meghalaya]. vii.