 Utera cropping system: It is a system of sowing the succeeding crop in the standing crop before harvesting for utilizing the available moisture. Generally utera is followed in paddy fields because there is sufficient moisture available in the fields. Crop, sown in the paddy fields are: pea, linseed, blackgram and lathyrus. 4. Badi cropping system: Tribals grow various types of crops in their surroundings and kitchen garden. In kharif season maize is the main Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2817 Relay cropping of groundnut and sesame 2818 Crop rotation of wheat and ogala along with maize crop to be grown in this system, which is sown in line by chadi. In addition to maize, vegetables like anta, lal bhajee (Amaranthus tricolor L), lady's finger, elephant's foot yam, palak (spinach), brinjal, tomato and chillies are grown, whereas fruits like papaya, guava, Zizyphus and banana are planted on bunds, which acts as a good fence. Mustard is the main crop grown in rabi season. Seeds of radish are mixed with mustard seeds. Vegetables like cucurbits, palak, suran (Amorphophallus campanulatus Roxb), chillies, gram and tomato are raised. In rainfed conditions local cultivars of these vegetables are used which are well adapted to prevailing environment. It is an age-old practice. Keywords: pigeonpea, rice, anta, kodo, kutki, sehra mitti In the groundnut (Arachis hypogaea) field, sowing of sesame (Sesamum indicum), prior to harvest of groundnut is in practice. If it is sown by broadcasting a day before harvest of groundnut, the seeds are automatically pushed to the soil while harvesting groundnut. Sesame seeds start germinating after 3 days. By using this method, cost of ploughing and sowing are reduced. Keywords: sesame, groundnut, relay cropping Wheat is sown in October-November and harvested in March-April. In the same field ogala along with maize crop is sown in June-July and harvested in early October, and the same crop sequence is followed during Shri S. Veerasamy, S/o Shri Subbiah Udaiyar, Venkatakulam, Post Alangudi Taluk, Pudukottai (Tamil Nadu) 614 623 Farmers of hilly area of Shimla district of Himachal Pradesh. Dr L R Verma, MRDA, 4 Summer Hill, Shimla (HP) 171 005 Content CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2819 Burning the forest shrubs and organic residues to induce germination 1820 Meeting out diversified needs by growing shurtin 21 Protection of crop from wild animals the next year. Such cropping system helps maintain fertility of soil, protect the crops from insect pest attack and also provide diversified food. This crop rotation is used throughout the hilly areas of Shimla district of Himachal Pradesh since a long time.