 The scheme also led to establishment of mega facilities on phenomics research, agro-processing centres etc. for reducing post- harvest losses. Development of quality human resources in agriculture sector and their capacity building through advanced knowledge and skills is achieved through this scheme. The document is an effort to highlight the achievements of NASF since its inception for promotion of agricultural research. (Jitendra Kumar) Assistant Director General (NASF)  vii Acknowledgements I NDIA is an agriculture-based country and its prosperity is dependent on the quality research and innovation in this sector. Also, research and innovation are the key visible tangible and intangible knowledge resource contributing to its technological development. National Agricultural Science Fund (NASF) was created to give a boost to the basic and strategic research in various fields of agriculture and generate quality human resource. The publication “Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund” (2006-2023) portrays the diverse research projects undertaken in agriculture and allied areas across the country. The first chapter provides an overview of the NASF, its processes and the data of the funded projects in last two decades. The following chapters detail out the work undertook, the achievements, state-of-the art-infrastructure created and major outputs in research projects helping the researchers to upgrade their knowledge, develop skills and train quality human resources. We are extremely grateful to all the Project Investigators (PIs) and Cooperating Centre Principal Investigators (CCPIs) for sharing their research achievements of the funded projects. We thank the support of NASF team for compiling and also thank the experts who have put their sincere efforts in editing this document. We specially thank the administration and finance division for their continuous support. The guidance and advise of the Empowered Committee, Expert Committee and the Advisory Committees are duly acknowledged. We sincerely thank Secretary, DARE & DG ICAR for his guidance and support in bringing out this publication. We hope that this publication would be useful to the students, researchers, policy makers, and administrators.