 Seed health: In the seed of poor storer line 6D-1, the restorer parent of sunflower hybrid KBSH 1, germination can be maintained by proper seed drying at 9% moisture and by packing in 700 gauge polythene bags after treatment with Thiram at 0.2% or Hadron (halogen based leaf powder) at 0.3%. Pre-sowing seed hydration treatment and Thiram dressing at 0.2% was effective in sunflower, wheat, maize and Cenchrus ciliaris. Deltamethrin 2.8 EC at 1 ppm (0.04 ml/kg) can be used as seed treatment to protect seed of all field crops from insect infestation. Tribolium castaneum, an important storage insect pest collected from NSP centres exhibited high degrees of tolerance (>24 times at Faizabad and Coimbatore) to malathion, a commonly used disinfectant in godowns. A high degree positive correlation was found between pairs of pulse beetle and number of adults emerging after first generation and percentage of seed damage. PLANT PROTECTION BIOLOGICAL CONTROL Biosystematic Studies on Indian Predatory Coccinellids An annotated checklist of the coccinellid fauna of Indian subcontinent comprising about 418 species under 78 genera, 21 tribes and five subfamilies is being prepared. The subfamily Epilachninae, with about 80 species, also has been added to checklist. Two new species, Microserangium brunneonigrum and Pseudaspidimerus infuscatus, have been described from south India. Two genera Synonychimorpha and Diomus, and one species Pseudaspidimerus mauliki, have been recorded for the first time from India. Anegleis cardoni and A. perrotteti have been identifed as promising predators of spiralling whitefly Aleurodicus dispersus, an exotic pest. Behavioural Studies on Natural Enemies Tritrophic interactions studies between 15 cotton genotypes, bollworm Helicoverpa armigera and egg parasitoids Trichogramma chilonis have revealed that allelochemical diversity in cotton genotypes (along with morphological characters) influences parasitization of Helicoverpa armigera eggs by T. chilonis. Highest parasitization of 42.22% was recorded on DHB 435 and CPD 431. Campoletis chlorideae recorded a higher parasitism of 4-day-old Helicoverpa armigera larvae on chickpea when larvae were preconditioned on plants for 24 hr as compared to just released larvae. Artificial Diets for Host-Insects and Natural Enemies Aphid lion Chrysoperla carnea could be successfully reared for 10 generations on beef-liver plus defatted soybean based artificial diet. The mean percentage survival and adult emergence were 88% and 86%. Biochemical analysis has revealed that the diet is rich in protein and carbohydrate and can be stored for 100 days. Mallada boninensis could also be successfully reared on the beef-liver based diet. Cryptolaemus montrouzieri was reared on a freeze-dried artificial diet based on the beef-liver and egg-yolk. Mean adult emergence of predators reared on artificial diet was 58%.