1% after casing effectively controlled the disease caused by Mycogone perniciosa, Verticillium fungicola and competitor mould Sepedonium chrysospermum was effectively controlled by spraying of Dithane M- 45. Bavistin was also effective for the control of dry bubble (V. fungicola) and sporogon was effective against wet bubble (Mycogone pernicoisa) @ 0.2% spray when applied immediately after casing. Studies on seasonal abundance of mushroom flies using light traps indicated that maximum population of phorids was observed during October, whereas maximum populations of sciarids was observed during May on seasonally grown crops at Solan. New strain of spring tropical mushroom ● An improved method of drying button mushroom was developed ● The mushroom powder was excellent for making soup, biscuits, nuggets etc. ● Four on-campus and 2-off campus training programmes on mushroom were organized IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF HORTICULTURAL CROPS 61 Improved method of drying the button mushroom (Agaricus bisporus) was developed which yielded mushroom powder suitable for production of excellent quality mushroom soup powder, biscuits, nuggets, etc. NRC for Mushroom, Solan, has organized 4 on-campus and 2-off campus training programmes for trainees from all over the country. FLORICULTURE ROSE Rose Pusa Gaurav, Pusa Bahadur, Pusa Priya, Pusa Barahmasi, Pusa Viranghana, Pusa Pitamber, Pusa Garima and Dr Bharat Ram were released by IARI, New Delhi. Application of NPK @ 400:300:200 ppm per week has been recommended for Ludhiana and Bhubaneswar regions. In First Red, nutritional dose of 150 ppm N, 50 ppm P2O5 and 150 ppm K2O/day along with 10kg FYM m2/year was best for production of quality cut flowers under polyhouse conditions. Spraying of Kavach 0.2% for the control of powdery mildew, 6 sprays of captan 0.2% or Bavistin 0.2% at 8 days interval for leaf spot/leaf blight, Vertimex 0.25%, or Mavrik 0.4 ml/litre for thrips and Curacron 2ml/litre for borer were standardized. GLADIOLUS Gladiolus Chandi, Gunjan, Kamini, Mohini, Lohit Rangmahal, Sarang, Shagun, Shringarika, Sukanya, Swapnil, Swarnima, Sunayana and Punjab Dawn were developed and released by Delhi and Ludhiana centres. For the production of quality spikes in gladiolus, 2 sprays of Fe2SO4 @ 0.2% at third and sixth leaf stages were recommended for Punjab and adjoining states. Pre-planting and pre-storage treatment of gladiolus corms with carbendazim (0.1%) + Bavistin (0.3%) was recommended for the control of Fusarium wilt and storage rot of corms. A holding solution consisting of sucrose (4%) + Al2SO4 (300 ppm) + NaCl (25 ppm) has been recommended for enhancing postharvest life of gladiolus cut spikes. CHRYSANTHEMUM Chrysanthemum Arka Ganga, Arka Ravi and Arka Swarna (IIHR, Banglaore); Shanti, Y2K, Kargil, Diana and Sadbhavna (NBRI, Lucknow); Punjab Anuradha and Punjab Gold (PAU, Ludhiana) were released for commercial cultivation.