 During those early days in late 60’s and 70’s the few companies like Sutton Seeds India, Pahuja, Mahyco and a few others, were the main seed companies known in the private sector cornering less than 5% of the total vegetable seed market in India. Most of the seeds were produced by the public sector companies like National Seeds Corporation (NSC) and several State Seed Corporations. In vegetables, seed replacement rates were less than 25% as farmers used to resow their own saved seeds. Seed quality, agronomy followed by farmers was not of a high standard and that meant low yields per unit area that were more or less similar to heavily populated countries like China and about half of what was obtained in USA and other developed nations. The industry, especially vegetables, has come a long way from those early days to the current. The first signs of more professionally based vegetable and flower seeds were seen by the establishment of Indo American Hybrid Seed Company in Bengaluru established by Late Padmashri Dr Manmohan Attavar and his partner Mr Krishna Bhat around 1972 when they introduced the tomato hybrid Karnataka and sweet pepper hybrid Bharat. Not only did they introduce these but also did an excellent extension work to introduce staked cultivation of tomato in commercial plots. In author’s view that is a major milestone in vegetable industry and this coincided with his own journey into the vegetable crop improvement scenario in private sector as he joined Pioneer as Principal Vegetable Breeder after 17 years in IIHR, Bengaluru. Soon several other MNC’s started their own R&D as well and initially the market received the best hybrids from their parent companies which was followed by hybrids developed in-house. The key crops for in-house research initially were tomato, pepper, okra, tropical cauliflower and eggplant. Once success in these crops was apparent, other crops like cucumber, bitter gourd, etc. followed. East West seeds and few Indian companies like VNR focussed initially on gourds and cucumber and later added the main crops as well. About ten years back few companies like Rik Zwan, Enza Zaden, Syngenta also started to focus on high value products suitable for protected cultivation-- tomato, sweet pepper, cucumber being the key crops. Vegetable Industry today From 40 crore annual turnover in 1989 the vegetable seed industry reached an annual revenue of `5,000 cr plus. Among the top companies are five from India, with UPL_Advanta at 4th, Namdhari seeds at 5th, Mahyco at 7th, VNR at 8th, RasiHyVeg at 9th and Kalash at 10th. Fig. 1. Top 16 vegetable seed companies 2020/21 (Source: Author’s estimates) March–April 2023 7 The annual sales revenues given in Fig 1 should be within a ±10 percentile range. This is a great endorsement of the investor confidence in the potential of vegetable seeds as well as of the talent pool we have in India.