 The time lags between conducting research and actual utilization of research outputs and outcomes for solving problems could lead to many potential disconnects. More concerning is the disconnect between basic and applied research, often compounded by institutional or geographic distance. Scientific organizations like ICAR engage in basic agricultural research for knowledge discovery for its prospective application to solve real-time problems. Research organizations have in the past had relative freedom to do this although at present with financial constraints it is progressively more difficult in some subjects to access the resources to continue basic research. In agriculture, basic research is an important starting point for much applied research, which is concerned with specific and defined problems rather than fundamental issues. The uniqueness of the leadership requirement in ICAR is that it is required to guide or lead the diversity of organizations and institutions performing research along this upstream, fundamental research to downstream, more applied research continuum (and often performing a development/extension function as well) to ensure minimum duplication and maximum synergy in a global environment. The system in the past was Leadership in Agricultural Research in Independent India 411 greatly benefitted by outstanding visionary leaders that enabled a diverse and dynamic system to contribute immensely to food secure nation. 3. Role of Leadership in Driving the Agricultural Research System with Changing Needs Following the recommendations Joint Indo-American Teams of 1954 and 1959 and Agricultural Research Review Team, the Government of India in 1963 approved the reorganization of the ICAR. The revision of the Council’s rules and by-laws were effected leading to structural changes such as reconstitution of the Governing Body; administrative control of all research institutes and commodity research institutes; and appointment of a Scientist as Director General and Vice-President of the Council. Dr. B.P. Pal, thus appointed as the first Director General of ICAR in May 1965. Prior to this, to achieve food security necessitated single agency administration and monitoring of various institutions established for that purpose. The first AICRP for maize was initiated in 1957 as a result of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, GOI signing an agreement with the Rockefeller Foundation in 1956. The success of the coordinated maize project in India proved to be a watershed moment in agricultural research planning. By 1965, ICAR decided to initiate coordinated projects on other crops as well as in other areas of research, such as animal husbandry, natural resource management, and so on. Currently, 60 coordinated projects on various subjects are in operation. India pursued an agricultural development strategy that prioritized self-sufficiency in staple foods such as wheat and rice.