 Venkatachalam, Associate Professor, Department of Bio- Energy, College of Agricultural Engineering, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore (Tamil Nadu) 641 003 METHODOLOGY Experiment Location The wood stove was evaluated at Gasifer Action Research Centre, School of Energy Science, Madurai Kamaraj University, Palkalainagar, Madurai, (Tamil Nadu) and Guru Match Industry, Research Line, Shacheyapuram, Sivakasi, dist. Virudhunagar, (Tamil Nadu). Extent and Coverage At the village and industries level mud-stove (chulha), wood-burning chulha, kerosene stove and LPG stove are used. The LPG and kerosene stove are not readily available every day and the cost is very high; besides the usage pattern is very difficult and risky. The farmers of the village are used to open, three stone fire places or mud stove for cooking and heating purposes. Their fire-places are dirty and inefficient. The smoke irritates, and may be a danger to health. They are also inefficient, because only less than 10% of the energy content of the fuel wood is used for cooking and heating. The rest goes up in the air. PRA and field study Unstructured interview was conducted and obtained all the details on the use and methods of ITK. The experimental method employed was to test the efficiency of the chulha by water-boiling test at the laboratory and actual tests at the work place by following the procedures as detailed below. Measured quantity of water was taken in a vessel with lid, which was placed above the stove. Then 250 g firewood was fed every 15 minutes. Water temperature was noted every 15 minutes by using a thermometer. The lid was removed when water temperature reached 98°C. Heating of water continued and the temperature was noted periodically. Weight of fuel and ash was recorded. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Performance of different stoves relating to consumption time, space consumption and maintenance, determined by field study, is shown in Fig. 2. Improved wood stove was found better than traditional stove in all the parameters studied, except space requirement. Experiment The burning rate and efficiency of the wood stove was tested using different fuel materials such as Casuarina equisetifolia, coconut shell, Table 1. Burning rate and efficiency of stoves using different fuels Feestock Burning rate (Kg/hr) Efficiency (%) Wood (Casuarina equisetifolia Forst) 5.2 23.2 Coconut shell 5.6 20.3 Coconut rachis 6.0 24.9 Arecanut (Bentinckia coddapanna Berry) husk 8.4 20.7  THERMAL EFFICIENCY coconut rachis and arecanut (Bentinckia coddapanna Berry) husk. The results obtained are given in Tables 1 and 2. The burning rate was observed to be 5.2 to 8.4 kg/hr. The higher density materials had lesser burning rate. The efficiency of the wood-stove with different fuel sources was 20.3 to 24.9%. It was observed that the efficiency of the stove did not depend on the type of fuel material used.