 Vegetative propagation efforts indicated maximum (40%) success through veneer grafting in August and 20% through chip budding. Vegetative propagation of amla (emblic myrobalan) through cleft grafting was standardized. It was observed that seedlings grown in February–March attained graftable growth by August. August was found to be the best month for grafting giving 85% success. Varietal response to grafting was not significant. Capping of grafts for 21 ± 2 days was instrumental in graft success. The technique was successfully demonstrated in mango and custard apple also. Teak-based Agroforestry In teak-based agroforestry system at Dharwad, marketable wood value of teak was significantly higher (Rs 222,520/ha) in 10 m spacing compared to 20 m spacing (Rs 121,760/ha). The teak-based agrisilvicultural system developed at Parbhani, revealed that pigeonpea is the most suitable intercrop up to 5 years, after that yield reduction is more than 50%. After 5 years, turmeric and ginger were economically remunerative crops. Tree-Crop Interactions The influence of tree species such as safed siris (Albizia procera), neem (Azardirachta indica) and teak (Tectona grandis) and tree-management practices (pruned up to 50% height and unpruned) and cropping system (with and without understorey crop) was studied on nutrient recycling, soil properties and productivity of companion crops (blackgram and wheat) at Jhansi. The yield of wheat was affected under the canopy of all the tree species compared to the control; maximum effect being under safed siris. Pruning has positive effect on crop yield and the variation between pruned and unpruned treatment within the species was in the range of 7.8– 8.8% only. l At Jhansi, in neem provenances trial, provenance Bhopal was found outstanding for growth parameters. l Several contrivances were developed for clonal propagation of white silk cotton tree. l Vegetative propagation of chironjee and amla was successful. l In teak-based agroforestry system at Dharwad, market value of teak wood was significantly higher (Rs 222,520/ ha) in 10 m spacing compared to 20 m spacing (Rs 121,760/ha). l The yield of wheat was impaired under the canopy of safed siris, neem and teak compared to the control. In teak-based agrisilviculture system turmeric was economically remunerative intercrop after 5 years. Here 7-year old teak spaced at 5 × 2 m has been shown with turmeric. Tree-crop interaction in agroforestry systems was probed. Intercropping of teak with wheat was taken up. The yield of wheat was declined DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 90 Soil Respiration under Trees Soil respiration studies conducted at Jabalpur under different tree species revealed higher respiration values during summer (March–June; mean 6,268 mgCO2/m/hour) followed by rainy season (July–October; mean 3,590 mgCO2 m/hour). Lowest CO2 evolution (mean 3,094 mgCO2 m/hour) was in winter (November–February).