 The study revealed that selection of appropriate model of the improved chulha in keeping with the requirements of the family, different types of fuels commonly available in the village and the type of cooking appliances used in the region was found to be the most important factor in adoption of the improved chulhas. Savings in fuel consumption, ease of operation and maintenance and lower smoke level were found to be other important considerations for the users. Many of the rural families, who found that the new chulha was suitable for cooking all their dishes, saved significant quantity of fuels (25% or more) and emitted lower smoke, began using the improved chulha regularly and subsequently dismantled their traditional chulha. ANIMAL ENERGY The ORP trials on improved yokes and animal-drawn equipment were conducted at different centres of AICRP on UAE. Two hundred Nagpuri yokes were distributed to farmers by Bhopal and Allahabad Centres to have feedback information from the farmers. Farmers liked the Nagpuri yoke as it increased the draughtability of their The MPUAT Udaipur Centre of AICRP on RES has designed and developed a horizontal flow floating drum type biogas plant for anaerobic digestion of fibrous agro-residues such as water hyacinth, kitchen waste, vegetable market waste and other farm residues. The plant consists of a digester, a floating steel gas holder, an inlet and an outlet provided along the length of the digester and a manual stirrer for mixing the slurry inside the digester. On an average, a gas yield of around 180 l/kg dry mass (varying between 150 and 210 l/kg dm) was obtained. No problem was encountered in operation of the plant during the period. A scaled-up plant of this design to produce on an average 9 m3 of biogas/day has been designed and installed at the Training Centre of Western Railway at Udaipur. About 80-100 kg waste from the kitchen and dining hall comprising uncooked and cooked vegetables, chapatis, rice, pulses, etc. are fed into the plant everyday. The plant has been provided with a mechanical shrudding unit for pre-treatment of the substrate before feeding into the plant. After its operation was stabilized, the substrate was changed to the kitchen waste. Around 90 kg of the waste along with equal quantity of water, mixed thoroughly by the shrudder is charged into the digester through the inlet chamber. The contents of the digester is stirred by rotating the handle manually in both directions for 5-10 min. in the morning and evening everyday. The initial solids concentration of the substrate was kept between 8 and 10%. Average biogas production of 195 l/kg dry matter has been recorded. The average NPK content of the digested slurry have been reported to be 1.88%, 1.48% and 0.21%, respectively.