 yy Farmers are advised to prepare the land for Kharif sowing yy Procurement of the seeds can be made for Kharif sowing: Viz: Green gram: DGGV-2, S-4: Black gram: DU-1, Soybean: Dsb-21, JS-335, Groundnut: G 2-52, GPBD-4 and Redgram: TS3R. yy Expose the soil to sun to kill the soil borne pathogens and harvest the summer rains in-situ by preventing the surface run off and 220 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS hence refilling the water table. Compartment bunds will hold the pre monsoon showers and avoid soil erosion. Land preparation across the slope after the receipt of rainfall for moisture conservation. Clean the channels (water ways) leading to village tank and farm pond for rain water harvesting. yy Do not burn crop residue. Take up rotavator operation in harvested fields of Cotton, Wheat and Safflower for incorporation of stubbles and crop residue in the soil. yy Seeds, seed treatment material and fertilizer required for sowing to be kept ready. Test germination percentage of seeds. yy Visit nearest RSK/KVK/Agril. University COVID-19 yy Sanitation of fields by removing plant residue, pest and disease infected plant parts as well as weed hosts yy In order to avoid the spread of Covid-19, always be alert to wear masks and use sanitizer while undertaking agricultural operations, and maintain social distancing. yy Since the lockdown has been announced in the state, it has also envisaged a system for farmers to sell their grown vegetables and fruits at HOPCOMS and register on the spot. The following documents are required to become a member: RTC, Adhar Card, Bank Pass Book Xerox, 3 Passport Photo, Crop Certificate. Farmers are requested to contact following persons to get early indent for their produce. yy 1. K. Krishna 9845725629 (Cardamom Banana Warehouse) yy 2. Hutch. Kempaya 9844334197 (Emerald Banana Warehouse) yy 3. N. Venkata Reddy 9844516846 (Mango Fury) - KVK, Ramanagara yy During summer season you should opt for cotton, loose garments to dress your new born baby whereas preschool children should be dressed in loose, cotton dress without big bows, fasteners lace. yy Drink beetroot juice with little lemon juice to increase the immunity 221 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS for being away from covid-19 and also it is helpful for maintaining blood pressure. POST HARVEST TECHNOLOGY yy Mix the food grains with dried Neem leaves in the ratio of (1:10) or mix with neem seed powder @ 1:20 to avoid damage from store grain pests. yy For the management of storage pests in Bengalgram and Rabi Jowar proper drying of seeds should be done to reduce the moisture percentage to less than 10 per cent. If the produce is for seed purpose treat the seeds with Malathion dust @ 2g/kg seed and if for grain purpose mix with neem leaves before storing. yy Fig farmers are advised to go for value addition in fig (preparation of fig jam/lather).