5 million (up to 28 February 2002) through sale of journals/periodicals, priced books and advertisements, and participated in various exhibitions and displayed the publications it brought out. Agricultural Research Information Centre (ARIC) Unit in collaboration with Art Unit digitized the photographs available in Photo Library of DIPA by creating a database in MS-Acess. The ARIC has collected and processed the information on AP Cess Fund Schemes, Research Projects, Indian Agricultural Periodicals, All-India Co-ordinated Research Projects and Crop Varieties released by the ICAR for providing information as and when required, and digitized the Council’s document Vision 2020. The web page of DIPA was developed and connected to the ICAR website. About 300 scientists and research scholars were benefited through the Selective Dissemination of Information (SDI) services (available at ARIC), viz. AGRIS-CD, CARIS-CD, CAB-CD etc., and document delivery services. About 10,000 readers visited the ICAR Library and consulted various publications available in the library. Publicity and Public Relations Unit issued material of current importance to various newspapers, agricultural and current affairs magazines and electronic media and the Council’s achievements in agricultural research, extension and education were adequately covered in the media at the national and regional levels. The video films prepared on the activities and achievements of the Council as a whole and on important issues of immediate concern to farmers, were distributed to various ICAR institutes, KVKs, Extension Directorates of SAUs for wide dissemination of information. Also, various exhibitions to display salient achievements of the Council relating to agricultural development, were organized. The Council has thus, made successful advances in agricultural research, extension and education to address the multiple and interwoven problems associated with food and nutritional security, such as enhancing productivity, sustaining production, protecting environment, conserving natural resources and improving profitability of farming as an occupation. With the meagre financial resources, the Council has exhibited appreciable pace of research in all sectors, viz. crops, horticulture, natural resource management, livestock, fisheries and agricultural engineering, besides strengthening the agricultural extension and education, introducing several organization and management reforms and strengthening the linkages and collaborative efforts with public and private sectors at national and international levels.