 Rabi Vegetables Vegetable nursery (cole crops, tomato, brinjal, chilli) should be prepared on raised beds 15 cm high,1 metre width and length as per convenience with polythene cover on top to prevent damage due to excessive moisture loss. Improved varieties of cabbage (Golden Acre, Pusa Drum Head, Pride of India Rocket, Blue Jays) cauliflower (Pusa Snow Ball, K-1, KSP 1173, Swati), Tomato (Rocky, Pusha Rohini, Nayak, Romeo, Megha 2, Megha 3, Arka Alok, Arka, Rakshak, Arka Abhed ) Okra (Arka Niketan), Radish (Arka Nishant), Carrot (KSP 135), Broccoli (KSP 5412, Indame Pirate), knokhol (White Vienna , Purple Vienna, Taj, Green Globe), Frenchbean (Phalguni, Arka Arjun, Naga local), Brinjal (US 28, KSP 1072, Signath, Bholanath) Seed treatment with Trichoderma sp @5gm/kg of seed and Pseudomonas sp @10g/kg of seed to prevent soil borne diseases both in the nursery as well as in the main field. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 271 Seedling root dip treatment with Trichoderma viridae or T. harzianum @ 5g/litre of water gives better protection against root diseases in the main field. Add enriched FYM/Vermicompost with Trichoderma and Pseudomonas @ 500g/ quintal of organic manure in nursery for healthy vegetable seedlings. After transplanting mulching with locally available resources like paddy straw to prevent moisture loss and suppress weed growth. Spraying with bio insecticides like Neem oil; Beauveria bassiana; Metarhizium anisoplea, Verticillium lecani should be done on need based basis depending upon the severity of infestation by insects. So also, the same with organic fungicides like blitox-50; bordeaux mixture 1% etc against diseases like leaf blight; leaf spot; downy mildew. Making own biopesticides by using locally available neem leaves, garlic, tobacco etc. Install yellow sticky traps @ 12/acre to monitor cabbage aphids. Install pheromone traps @ 4-5/acre for monitoring Diamond back moth. Mulching with paddy straw or any dry leaves can be done to increase soil temperature, conserve soil moisture especially during the dry periods. For farmers that lacks source of irrigation, they can go for vegetables cultivation in fallow paddy fields with the raised and sunken bed system. Harvested maize stalk should be used for mulching purpose in between the two rows of the french bean. Crop rotation: Paddy-Frenchbean (Lowland), Maize-Frenchbean (Upland), Maize-Carrot-Frenchbean (Upland), Maize- Frenchbean-Tomato (Upland), Maize-Frenchbean-Toria (Upland), Frenchbean-bhindi-blackgram (raised beds) Frenchbean-bhindi- frenchbean (raised beds) ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 272 Fruit Crops Khasi mandarin should be prune out for the diseased and dead branches after the harvesting of fruit. Prune 30-40% of shoots during November- December to increase fruiting. Bordeaux paste (1:1:10) should be applied after every pruning operation. Piggery Use the improved breed of pig viz.