” End and means are the two most important concepts in Gandhian philosophy, which are foundations of his doctrine of truth and non-violence. His principle of aparigraha is one of the most important to bring simple and peaceful living, co-operation with one another. However, in our present society we are facing so many challenges. One of them is the disconnect between knowledge and work-ethics. Knowledge is separated in thought, in life as well as in market values. In this background, the education plays an important role to equip individuals with the skills and attitudes that are necessary in order to adapt in changing situations and to add the creative spirit in the task of social change. ‘Work and knowledge should go together’ is the Gandhian principle of education. The educational systems try to develop the individual soul and mind, courage and self-reliance, cultivate the highest intellectual, scientific, moral and ethical accomplishments. Gandhian Philosophy of Agricultural Education 146 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR His principle of ‘learning by doing’ tries to stimulate the individual’s mind to think creatively, independently and critically. He laid emphasis on work-culture to the learners from the primary stage to higher stage in order to start producing from the time one starts training. So, his philosophy of basic education is Head, Heart and Hand rather than Reading, Writing and Arithmetic. 3. Gandhian Principles and ICAR Activities 3.1. Education to satisfy the needs of villages Gandhiji observed, “If we want to impart education best suited to the needs of the villagers, we should take the vidyapith to the villages.” ICAR through its Agricultural Education Division, is involved in strengthening and streamlining of higher agricultural education system to enhance the quality of human resources. The division strives for maintaining and upgrading quality and relevance of higher agricultural education through partnership and efforts of the ICAR- Agricultural Universities (AUs) system comprising of State Agricultural Universities (63), Deemed to be universities (4), Central Agricultural Universities (3) and Central Universities (4) with Agriculture Faculty. As foremost step for quality improvement of education, the ICAR has periodically been appointing Deans Committees for revision of course curricula of under- graduate programmes of agricultural education. In this series, the Fifth Deans’ Committee has developed the report by undertaking comprehensive consultations and a bottom up approach for curriculum development. Inputs from different stakeholders of agricultural education were obtained at different levels.