 Common causes associated with fruit cracking may be improper irrigation, environmental factors, and nutritional deficiency, especially boron, calcium, and potash. Application of digital technologies In the 20th century, agriculture became an Marathe R. A.*, Manjunatha N. and Agarwal R. November–December 2024 11 amalgamation of farming practices and science/technology. In the 21st century, it is time to utilise digital technologies efficiently for enhancement of agricultural produce. Digital technologies are revolutionizing agriculture, including pomegranate cultivation. By 2050, lower number of people are expected to be involved in farming hence mechanisation in farm operations staring from planting to harvesting is the way forward. By leveraging data- driven acumens and automation, farmers can significantly improve yield, quality, and sustainability. Precision farming: Precision farming, powered by data-driven insights, is a cornerstone of modern farming practices. In pomegranate cultivation, precision farming has contributed significantly in enhancing production through nutrient and water use efficiency. For example, variable rate fertilisation (VRF) is one of the central technologies of precision farming and can save phosphorous, potassium and nitrogen application as compared to conventional fertilisation. Another aspect of precision farming is precision irrigation. Since, pomegranate is adapted to arid or semi-arid conditions, excess of water is a waste of resources leading to increased inexpenses. At the biological level, excess of water can hamper the aeration of the roots which may cause fruit cracking, or attack by pests and soil-borne pathogens. Precision irrigation in pomegranate orchards thus helps in preventing moisture stress as well as fertiliser leaching. Frequent fertigation in sufficient volumes based on the growth stage of the plants is provided according to the depth of the root system. Through precision irrigation system, we can ensure that each plant receives just the right volume of water ensuring optimal hydration that promotes good health as well as better growth of each plant in the orchard. Precision farming also involves the use of sensors, drones, and satellites to collect and analyse data about various factors affecting plant growth. Sensors: Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs) have a promising role in precision farming. These can be employed to precisely record and monitor real time weather; and soil and crop growth parameters. Due to changing climatic conditions, crops like pomegranate have suffered huge losses. Pomegranate is known to be a crop for arid and semi-arid regions, however, due to unseasonal and erratic heavy rains in the past few years, the crop has faced heavy losses due to diseases such as bacterial blight which thrive well in humid conditions.