4% against Meloidogyne incognita and Macrophomina phaseolina complex reduced effectively plant mortality, gall index, nematode population and spore load and increased fibre yield. Fruit crops. Meloidogyne incognita Race 1 population was reduced in banana treated with Pasteuria penetrans and Trichoderma viride. Application of Pseudomonas fluorescens at 10 g/pit at planting and 45 DAT was found to reduce M. incognita population and increased banana yield. Paring of banana rhizomes before planting + neem-cake at 1 kg/plant + Carbofuran 3G at 16.6 g/plant effectively minimized Radopholus similis, Helicotylenchus multicinctus and Meloidogyne incognita complex. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 52 AGRICULTURAL ORNITHOLOGY The BBR+ at 10 ml/litre of water concentration and reflective ribbon showed higher yield in sorghum in kharif (845.7 kg/ha) and rabi (1,013 kg/ha). Similarly wrapping and ribbon on maize-crop during kharif showed higher yield (1,369 kg/ha) in treated plot compared to control (1,197.25 kg/ha). In kharif, spray of BBR+ at 10 ml/litre of water concentration reduced avian damage in field in Punjab. In BBR+ sprayed field, mean damage estimation was 0.08 ± 0.87 as compared to control value of 7.50 ± 0.80. BBR+ at 5 ml/litre of water concentration was effective in controlling bird damage during grain-filling stage of rice at Kerala. At Andhra Pradesh on sorghum BBR+ at 10 ml/litre of water concentration showed significant yield increase (1,005 kg/ha) compared to control (833 kg/ha); with 17.1% reduction in damage among treatments. Reproductive success of rose-ringed parakeet in different areas of Andhra Pradesh varied between 48% (Scarce Rainfall Zone) and 63% (Southern Telengana Zone). The dietary preference and diet composition of cattle egret in different heronries of Andhra Pradesh showed high preference to insects (75%), followed by non- insect matter (25%). This indicates, cattle egret as an important potential depredatory bird in agricultural ecosystem. In Kerala, crow-pheasant or coucal (Centropus sinensis) has been found a potential biocontrol agent against stem-borer of cardamom. Accomplished for the first time breeding of bank myna an important depredatory bird of Orthopteran and Lepidopteran pests, in artificial nest-boxes installed in open wells of agricultural habitats. Bank myna feeds on 1,061 g of insects, which equals to 3,810 insects during nestling period of a brood Diet composition of cattle egret nestlings in Andhra Pradesh Sprouting groundnut is being damaged by rose- ringed parakeet at the roosting site Screen crop, a potential device for saving grains from birds’ damage IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF HORTICULTURAL CROPS 53 Improvement and Management of Horticultural Crops FRUIT CROPS MANGO A total of 633 accessions were maintained in the National Repository of Mango Germplasm at Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Lucknow. Of them, 252 were catalogued as per the IPGRI descriptors.