 The supply of CO2 is regulated by a control panel. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 104 POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 105 machine are 100, 92 and 100%, respectively. Manual grader for multiplier onion The developed manual grader for multiplier onion consists of feed inlet, perforated drum, handle, shaft with bearing, collecting tray and supporting frame. The length and width of the feed inlet are 350 and 50 mm, respectively. The capacity of grader is 200 kg/h with a grading efficiency of about 93%. The cost of operation of the grader is ` 0.4/kg and results in saving of about 35% compared to manual grading. Banana pseudostem outer sheath plate making equipment The equipment consists of male and female die made of aluminum of size 200 mm, 250 mm and 300 mm. Provision was given to vary the temperature and pressure based on the raw material and requirement of the finished product. The process of joining the outer sheath to make for plate of required size was also standardized. The average capacity of the equipment is about 30–40 plates/h. Low-cost energy efficient cotton stalk briquette based crematorium An innovative low-cost energy efficient biomass briquette-based crematorium, which allows performing of all traditional rites during cremation, was developed. It requires about 35–40% less fuel as compared to traditional wood-based crematorium. Digital ginning percentage indicator (DGPI) Traditionally seed cotton is traded irrespective of Ginning percentage (GP) due to lack of appropriate machine to record GP accurately on real time basis in market yards and ginneries which deprives farmers from getting additional benefit for sowing improved GP cotton cultivars. Hence to facilitate objective grading based on GP and to promote lint based trading, a digital ginning percentage indicator (DGPI) for portable cotton gin was developed on electromechanical principal for real time determination of GP of seed cotton. Reusable face mask with breathability and antimicrobial Property A three layered cotton fabric based mask was developed, which provided required breathability to the wearer along with antimicrobial and water repellent characteristics. The top and bottom layers of the mask were made up of fluorine free water repellent treated polyester-cotton blended fabric which provided water repellent and quick drying properties to the mask. The middle layer of the mask was made up of 100% cotton fabric treated with institute developed non-leaching type antimicrobial agent. The breathability of the developed mask was 37 ft3/min/ft2. The differential pressure is 46 Pa/cm2. The bacteria filtration efficiency is 78% when tested under dynamic conditions and the antimicrobial efficiency is 100% against both gram positive and negative bacteria. The durability of the antimicrobial finish is up to 25 washes. The particle filtration efficiency of the developed mask is 58%.