 While, Aulosira fertilissima, Calothrix sp., and O. formosa are poor lipid accumulators. High lipid accumulator, C. minutissima, grown in open and closed raceway ponds reported the average areal productivity of biomass and lipid at 30 cm culture SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 183 (W/W on materials dry weight basis). The total content of N and P increased from 1.12 to 1.8% and 3.2 to 4.12%, respectively in these materials. The maize and soybean crop grew better under enriched compost plots as compared to un-inoculated control. There was no plant pathogenic nematode observed in these enriched compost. Further, it was observed that E. coli and Salmonella species were not found in this enriched compost under aerobic decomposition. Conservation agriculture in maize systems: The zero tilled (ZT) maize systems left markedly higher SOC as compared to conventionally tilled (CT) in sandy loam soil of Indo-Gangetic plains. Similarly, the portion of the recalcitrant carbon pool was found higher under ZT over CT, which underlines the importance of the conservation agriculture based crop management in improving carbon quality and its sequestration potential in the soil. Earthworm population was significantly higher in ZT system irrespective of the tillage. There was positive correlation between earthworm cast and its population count. Better enzymatic activities including urease, alkaline phophatsae, florescein diacetate and glucosidase was also observed in earthworm cast than normal soil which shows its importance in improving soil biological activities at large. The improvement in carbon quality and earthworm activities in ZT could be the important factor for explaining higher yields and resource use efficiency under this production system. Effect of climate, nutrient management and soil type in soybean-based cropping system: Significant changes in the vertical distribution of soil organic carbon (SOC), total nitrogen and nitrogen cycling enzyme activity were recorded in soybean-based cropping systems in different agro-climatic regions. The SOC and total nitrogen in the top 30 cm (relative to the total top 90 cm) was found to the tune of 65, 71, 60 and 80%; and 76, 68, 68 and 71% for vertisols of Bhopal, Jabalpur, Indore and Alfisol of Ranchi, respectively across soil nutrient management. The profile distribution of SOC and total nitrogen content decreased with increase in temperature and precipitation and a significant negative correlation was found between SOC and maximum temperature. Soil pH, clay, soil microbial activity and soil nutrient management are the essential factors influencing the SOC spatial distributions. Soil nutrient management significantly influenced the distribution of SOC and total nitrogen content till 60 cm depth across site. The order of SOC sequestration is soybean–wheat > soybean– chickpea > soybean-fallow cropping system.