 These are helping the policy makers and local communities to address the impacts of climate change and enhance resilience of agriculture. The flood hazard model for Bagmati and Burhi Gandak river and flood mapping tool using satellite data for Bihar to assess flood severity and impact on agricultural losses was completed. The insurance product is planned to be rolled out in 2017 flood season in Bihar along with insurance companies. South Asia Drought Monitoring System (SADMS): The drought hotspots are determined for risk assessment and planning preparedness measures. Two case studies were developed in Maharashtra and Bundelkhand to evaluate the integrated drought severity index (IDSI) and its applicability. The project has developed a near-real time monitoring and forecasting system based on probabilistic medium-range forecasts and seasonal forecasts Water Policy Program - ITP: The use of solar pumps for irrigation is taking off in India. The solar power as a remunerative crop (SPaRC) is promoting sustainable groundwater management. SPaRC is allowing farmers to pump the irrigation water and sell the excess electricity generated to the grid, creating a solar cash crop. Clean Ganga and fecal pollution prevention: The study on the prevention of pollution from fecal sludge has completed integrated baseline assessments of the 3 selected cities (Mughal Sarai, Gangaghat and Unnao) to identify challenges and opportunities. The study report that almost 40% of the household in Ganga states are connected to septic tanks but in the absence of FSM, with frequent desludging, septic tanks have nil treatment capacity. The FSM has received little attention but shows good potential for small and medium cities alone or in combination with other sanitation solutions (cheaper and quick win). The healthy Ganga – Cleaner water and more productive ecosystems project from WLE presented practical solutions based on the research for cleaning the river, and making productive use of the liquid and solid waste to a wide range of stakeholders including MoWR officials, research organizations and other international organizations working on the Ganga. Adaptation to innovations: An integrated science stakeholder approach to develop adaptation framework to climate change was implemented in the southern states of India (Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu). The project has implemented promising adaptation practices such as, direct seeded rice, Modified SRI (Mechanized transplantation of rice), alternate wetting and drying in rice, weather index insurance and Green Manure, Azolla and BGA. The project has created awareness on climate change impacts and improved the adaptive capacity by reducing inputs. International conference on climate change, water, agriculture and food security (ICCCWAFS) was organized from 2-3rdNovember 2016 in Hyderabad with 16 international institutes and 21 national institute’s participation.