 Improved nursery raising methods like raised bed method and raising seedlings in pro-tray using coco pith were introduced among the farming community. Knowledge and skill were imparted on improved package and practices of vegetable cultivation. Pro-tray and coco pith were also distributed among adopted farmers for production of healthy seedlings of vegetables. MAPE Model for Backyard Poultry highest knowledge was gained by the farm women in disposal of eggs/birds (70%) followed by meaning and concept of backyard poultry (66.66%) and housing of birds (64.66%). The youth core group gained knowledge in meaning and concept of backyard poultry (78.33%), disposal of eggs/birds (78.33) and vaccination (76%). Out of eight YCG members, one woman and one man come out and independently contacted agencies (CPDO, OPOLFED, AH Department) and purchased day-old chicks (100 each), feed, vaccination, etc. to rear in mother unit. Two successful case studies were recorded under the project. Nutrition and livelihood enhancement of tribal families Multi-sectoral package of practices: The project was carried out to document the gendered access to assets, and researchable issues in the tribal eco-system, and to facilitate capacity building and skill upgradation Livelihood and nutritional improvement of tribal farm women through horticulture SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 117 Empowerment of farm women for improved quality of life In this project focus was on the following for improving the quality of life of farm families: • Assessment of nutritional status of farm families, nutritional challenges faced by them and suggestive interventions for the management of malnutrition • Introduction of drudgery reducing technologies for enhanced efficiency • Need based technological empowerment of farm women for income generation and livelihood security. Households from two to three selected villages were identified for conducting base line survey on health and nutritional status, resource availability, drudgery reducing activities and need assessment for income generating activities at all the four centers (CIWA, Bhubaneshwar; ATARI Zone-I, Ludhiana; ATARI Zone- VI, Jodhpur; ATARI Zone-VII, Jabalpur). At each related data/knowledge bases in agriculture, to facilitate wider sharing of gendered information/ knowledge through appropriate modules and user-friendly interfaces and bring out knowledge products on various issues concerning women and agriculture. Under this project a Gender Knowledge Portal was developed. Gender in agriculture partnership (GAP)-India: The proposal to create GAP-India hub was approved under XII Plan EFC. The goal of GAP-India is to engender agricultural research and extension for empowering women and girls, who are an important human resource in agriculture, to achieve higher level of human development and gender inclusive agricultural growth through effective institutional collaboration’.