 The policy framework put in place half a century ago to encourage self-sufﬁciency in food production has not only created a skewed incentive structure towards the production of rice and wheat using industrial practices but also transformed the eating habits of the Indian populace towards rice and wheat (Kataki, 2002) resulting in signiﬁcant reduction and in some cases, complete extinction of other less polluting native crops. Realising the environmental impact of current agricultural practices, the Indian government in recent times is trying to change the eating habits and cropping patterns of Indians with policies that encourage the inclusion of millets and other environmentally sustainable and healthy food grains. While these policy efforts are commendable, unless there is a concerted effort from all levels of society, including indi- viduals, families, communities, and industry, the govern- ment alone cannot pull off this challenging feat. A signiﬁcant chunk of India’s emissions is due to electricity usage, followed by agriculture and manufacturing. The vari- ous industry sectors high in energy intensity and carbon emissions, such as Steel, Cement, Energy and Transport, need to bring about signiﬁcant changes in their raw materi- als, production processes, and supply chains to reduce their total contributions to the country’s carbon footprint. Simi- larly, revolutionary changes in the agriculture and food pro- duction systems are necessary, along with changes in the eating habits of individual consumers, to reduce this sector’s contribution to India’s carbon footprint. Therefore, in this paper, we review the literature, analyse the existing poli- cies, and propose a conceptual framework that aligns the interests of individuals, communities, organisations and the government and orients us towards a sustainable future. Efﬁciency and productivity are the metrics typically used to measure the performance of any mass production system across the globe (Gama & Cavenaghi, 2009). Agriculture, Energy and Transportation, the three key sectors of an econ- omy, are no different. Input cost efﬁciency (input cost per unit output produced) and output yield (output produced per unit resource) are the typical metrics used to measure the efﬁciency and productivity of the practices adopted. However, these metrics do not take into account the long- term impact of these practices (Tajbakhsh & Hassini, 2015), especially from the social and environmental sustainability angles, in addition to the economic perspective. In this study, we, therefore, analyse the current state of agriculture, energy and transport systems and the corre- sponding policy frameworks, using the triple bottom line approach (Elkington, 1998), which assesses the effectiveness of any business or system from not just economic, but also social and environmental angles.