 For aflatoxin resistance, fifty-one F1 seeds of groundnut from eight cross combinations using three elite parents, ICGV 15083, ICGV 03043, ICGV 86015 as the female parent and four transgenic events, two each of defensin and HIGS construct as male parent were advanced to F2 in P2 containment facility at ICRISAT. Subsequently F2 progeny from eight cross combinations using three elite parents, ICGV 15083, ICGV 03043, ICGV 86015 as the female parent and events, two each of defensin and HIGs construct as male parent were characterized based on PCR with gene specific primers (defensin and host-induced silencing; HIGS genes). Overall 40 F2 progenies found to be positive with defensin gene specific primers. The seeds from these F2s were evaluated for aflatoxin resistance, and 55 F2 lines with Def4Ec and 8 F2 lines with HIGS transgene showing aflatoxin content below 20 ppb were transferred to P2 containment facility at ICRISAT. Based on PCR with gene-specific primers, selected F2 plants carrying defensin and HIGS gene in three different backgrounds ICGV 03043, ICGV 15083 and ICGV 86015 were advanced to F3 and backcrossed again with the respective background to obtain F2BC1 seeds. Additionally, a comparative proteomic study has been carried out between JL24 (susceptible) and transgenic OE-Def (resistant) ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 33 Fig. 4. Whole farm model results on monthly cash flow in farming system for a five years’ time horizon, Suryapet district, Telangana (INR) peanut lines adopting a gel-free comparative proteomics to unravel the molecular mechanism behind the seed resistance to A. flavus infection to provide significant additional insights compared to the canonical 2-DE-based proteomic exploration. Over 1079 proteins in control and 1103 proteins in transgenic showed differential expression compared to their respective uninoculated controls. Besides, of the six groundnut transgenic events with 4 RNAi constructs in T2 generation, screened under in vitro aflatoxin bioassays, 2 events showed aflatoxin content below 10 ppb. Further molecular characterization of these events using gene-specific primers is underway Integrating systems analysis and modelling tools to identify interventions that enhance farming systems resilience and nutrition sensitive agricultural value chains in semi-arid regions of India Whole-farm bio-economic modelling as decision support: Integrated farming systems models were parameterized for 4 districts as decision support system collaboratively with KVKs in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The bio-economic household system model was used to assess the trade-offs and synergies within integrated crop- livestock systems (Figures 4 and 5). Three hands-on training workshops were organized for CRIDA team on integrated whole farm modelling (CLEM/IAT) between June and December in 2019. The CRIDA team now have hands-on capacity to parameterize and run the farming system model.