 Monitor fishes by netting the pond once within 15 days and provide bath treatment using potassium permanganate solution. Whenever any unusual fish behaviour is noticed, take immediate precaution to overcome those. For example, when fishes start ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 187 irregular movement and comes near surface water for gasping, such condition depicts low oxygen concentration in fishpond and immediate aeration is required. Fishes are more prone to common fish diseases of bacterial, fungal, parasitic, and viral such as tail or fin rot, dropsy, gill fluke, EUS and fungal. Therefore, an immediate measure to treat the fishes is required thus it is advised to treat the pond with CIFAX @ 1l/ha just before the onset of winters. Also, apply potassium permanganate @ 3-5 kg/ha or limestone @ 150-200 kg/ha. Salt solution may also be treated in pond @ 250 kg/ha which proves beneficial in protecting fish against disease outbreak during winters. Fish based Integrated Farming System Horticulture - Duck based fish farming is considered the best model among all available options in Bihar for income generation round the year. Stocking density of ducks- 200-300 per ha, adequate to produce manure and serve as bio-aerator for fishpond. Biofloc farming Considered as new technology for farmers who does not possess land for pond construction. Minimal or zero water exchange system of fish farming thus utilizing wastewater. Suitable species for this farming system is Pangas, Magur, Kawai, Tilapia and Common carp. To construct biofloc set-up of 7 tanks of 4m dia and 1.5 m height, an amount of Rs. 7-8 lakh is required. Major constraint in this technique is 24X7 electricity connection. Cage culture in large reservoirs An important water resource (chaurs and mauns of Bihar) to tap the fish production potential. Cage culture may be promoted at places having a water depth of 10m round the year with 1000 ha or more water spread area. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 188 Harvesting Crafts used for fish catching must be washed with soap solution followed by 5 min dip treatment with 1% Sodium hypochlorite solution and leave it for drying. Gears involved in fish catching should be treated with disinfectants or with home-made neem solution after every use. During craft operation, a maximum of two persons will be allowed for fishing in freshwater bodies. Indigenous boats operating in each area need to follow the rules of keeping 3m safe distance while fishing. Marketing and transport guidelines Fish landing centres may be cleaned using bleaching powder (Calcium hypochlorite) or by Sodium hypochlorite. Fish auction poi nts or whole seller market timing may be constricted to avoid unnecessary gatherings. Sanitize insulated/ refrigerated trucks at the entry point for inter- state transits. Wash and sanitize the small- sized transport vehicles on daily basis. Adopt Matsya Bandhu- a solar based mobile refrigerated vehicle designed by Dr.