 Campylobacter jejuni isolates from milk and milk products were characterized l A multiplex PCR was developed for detection of Listeria monocytogenes in milk and milk products l Beneficial effect of camel milk on glycemic control and diabetic quality of life in type I diabetes mellitus MEAT AND POULTRY PRODUCTS TECHNOLOGY Processing and Value Addition l Technologies were developed for chicken nuggets, sausages, tandoori kababs, fried tenders (breast muscle-minor) from broiler-spent hens and enrobed meat products with high consumer acceptability. l Complementary technologies were developed for chicken samosa, stuffed chicken paratha and chicken gel (stock for chicken soup) to improve the commercial viability of spent hen utilization and low cost improved chicken meat chips and curls. Developed dehydrated instant chicken soup mix from spent hen meat: To widen the avenue for efficient disposal of less desirable spent (culled) hens, efforts were made to formulate dehydrated instant chicken soup mix from cooked (1 kg/cm2; 15 min) and oven-dried (70 ± 1°C; 12 hr) spent hen meat stock (40%) in combination with refined wheat flour (30%), skim milk powder (15%), hydrogenated vegetable l Dehydrated instant chicken soup mix developed using spent hen. l Egg crepe, a convenience egg-rich item, developed. l Food-borne pathogens testing methods developed. l Red chili inclusion in chicken meat products improved storage stability. LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 127 oil (7%), common salt, seasonings and permitted food additives. Chicken soup mix packed aerobically in LDPE film (300 G) pouches or under vacuum in aluminum foil-LDPE laminated pouches revealed a gradual decline in pH and a progressive increase in TBA value of the product during 90 days of storage at mean ambient temperature (24ºC). The rate of lipid oxidation was, however, much faster in aerobically than that in vacuum packed sample. The product had low (0.53) water activity (aw) initially, which did not evince much change during storage. Similarly, moisture (5.6–6.1%), crude proteins (60.8–61.2%) and ether extract (13.9–14.5%) of the product during storage did not change. Both bacterial (log 2.5–3.6 cfu/g) and yeast and mold (log 1.0–1.4 cfu/g) counts remained fairly low throughout the storage regardless of packaging treatments. A few anaerobes were encountered in vacuum packed samples but no coliforms or staphylococci were detected. Sensory quality tended to decline with storage time but vacuum packed samples were preferred organoleptically over aerobically packed group throughout the storage. Egg crepe preparation: Egg crepe, a thin, flat, circular egg-rich product, can be popularized as a convenience egg-rich item at growing fast food outlets and at homes. The most acceptable standardized formulation consisted of 60% homogenized liquid whole egg and 40% mixture of blended whole white rice and dehusked black gram splits. Besides skimmed milk powder (5%), salt (0.