com Dehydrated potato chips Potato flour Potato flakes Potato French fries Potato starch November–December 2019 67 P o t e n t i a l P o t e n t i a l P o t e n t i a l P o t e n t i a l P o t e n t i a l S K Chakrabarti, Brajesh Singh and Sanjeev Sharma Export opportunities of Indian potatoes India contributes around 13% of the total world potato production but our contribution to world potato export is around 1.6% only, which is not even 1% of the total potato production in the country. Potato being semi-perishable and bulky agri-commodity, its export from India was not guided by a long term policy support. As potato is a politically sensitive crop, targeted steps are usually taken to keep its retail price at an affordable level for the domestic consumers. Therefore, potato export was, in general, a crisis management tool during the years of oversupply. On the contrary, in the international markets exports can only be increased through building credibility and making long term contracts. T HE impact of extensive potato research and development in India during last seven decades had been phenomenal in all aspects of potato production. The crop has witnessed 9.19 times increase in area, 31.3 times increase in production and 3.4 times increase in productivity during 1949-50 to 2016-17. The area, yield and production in 1949-50 was 0.234 million ha, 6.59 t/ha and 1.54 million tonnes, respectively. By the end of XII plan period i.e. 2016-17, the country produced 48.61 million tonnes of potatoes from an area of 2.18 million ha with an average yield of 22.30 t/ha (NHB, 2016-17, final estimate). This production has been estimated to further rise to approximately 52 million tonnes as per the latest NHB report for 2018-19. As a consequence India became the second largest potato producer in the world. On the contrary, recurrent gluts in potato production have become a common event with the increase in potato production in the country. The prices crash drastically during harvesting months leading to panic sale by the farmers, thereby, incurring huge monetary losses. Lack of proper marketing channels, insufficient/ expensive cold storage facilities and low domestic utilization are some of the factors that precipitate glut situation. Moreover, the potential for exporting seed, table potatoes and processed products has hardly been explored in India. In true sense our country is not yet prepared to absorb excess potato production. Issues related to promotion of utilization, storage, marketing, processing and export need urgent attention for easing recurrence of gluts in potato production.