 ICAR sponsored All India Coordinated Research Projects (AICRPs) rationalized for rightsizing the human resources and financing which could result into a saving of over Rs. 100 crores annually. The Cadre Review of Scientific positions carried out in ICAR. The entry level scientific positions enhanced expanded adding to a flexi pool of scientific strength to address the emerging research needs. The Cadre Review of Administrative positions was undertaken and the recommendations already implemented. Implementation of e-office with over 95% e-file works in ICAR Hq and almost all the institutes under ICAR. Digital Technology applications increased in research governance and facilitation with transparency at its core. The Finance Management System, Online Transfer Systems, Foreign Visit Management System and Online Examination for UG/PG admissions were introduced. Q. Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav (AKAM) ICAR has planned several activities during 75th Year of India’s independence to celebrate Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav. The major activities include 75 mass awareness campaigns; 75 lectures on agriculture and allied areas; DARE-ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2014-2021 53 publications of 75000 success stories of doubling farmers income and 75 years of agricultural development. The mass awareness campaigns, webinars and lecture series will be organized at National Level on different key areas in which public leaders, farmers, self help groups, FPOs, input providers, civil society organizations, scientists, academia, students, teachers along with personnel of ICAR institutes and KVKs will participate. The first national campaign was organized on 22nd March, 2021 on the occasion of World Water Day. R. Special Campaigns A special awareness campaign ‘Information, Education and Communication (IEC)’ carried out for in-situ management of crop residues in about 700 village in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh districts. Over one lakh people participated in the campaign including school children which created large-scale awareness leading to significant reduction in straw burning events. Hon’ble Prime Minister launched National Animal Disease Control Program (NADCP) for FMD and Brucellosis and Nationwide Artificial Insemination (AI) programme on 11th September, 2019 at Mathura, Uttar Pradesh in 600 districts having less than 50% AI coverage. Simultaneously, the workshops on vaccination, disease management and AI were organized at 651 KVKs. Sixty five MPs and 106 MLAs led the program at KVKs and 1,33,140 farmers participated. Vaccination and Artificial insemination were carried out on 65,262 animals. ICAR in collaboration with IFFCO organized a tree plantation campaign on 17th September, 2019 in which 7,10,740 plants were planted. The tree plantation was conducted at 649 KVKs with the participation 1,41,243 farmers, 34 Hon’ble Member of Parliaments, 50 MLAs and 2000 other VIPs.