 For smooth implementation of the proposal for creation, modernization and upgradation of godowns and other infrastructure by Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS), technical expertise of Agricultural Engineering (with specialization of processing of agricultural commodities and storage) is needed to get correct technical inputs at various levels of committees for implementing the scheme. Agricultural engineering inputs are vital for transforming the agricultural and rural landscape of Indian economy. The technical expertise will also come in handy for establishment and operation of cold chain infrastructure, custom hiring centers of processing equipment/facilities and farm machinery to be run by PACS as envisaged in the scheme. Engineering integrated digital solutions Information, computing and connectivity can be engineered to develop cutting edge digital technologies. Some of the examples are sensor-based network with block chain technology to enhance traceability and reduce inefficiencies in supply chain of agri- commodities, Internet of things, digital twinning of storage and transport processes, and cyber agrophysical systems for real time assessment. Although these technologies appear to be too expensive, public A typical layout of APC (Source: Nachiket et al. 2023) Agro processing centres types based on processing capacity Basic Model Agro-Processing Centre (APC): This model is ideal for small-scale or community-based operations. It focuses on primary processing such as cleaning, grading, and simple milling. Intermediate Model APC (Cluster-Based Approach): This model supports farmer-producer organizations (FPOs) and cooperatives to scale up operations. Advanced Model Agro-Processing Centre (Commercial Scale): This model is designed for large-scale processing and marketing of agricultural produce, suitable for regional processing hubs. Table 1. APC models relevant to rainfed area Model Focus Major machinery Estimated cost APC-I Primary processing of grains, pulses, oilseeds, and spices Pre-cleaners, grinders, atta chakkies, dal mill, oil expeller INR 25–30 lakh + INR 6–8 lakh for shed APC-II Rice milling and extruded products Mini rice mill, extruder, pre cleaners INR 30 lakh APC-V Minimal processing, drying, and powdering Peeler, dryer, pulverizer, cold storage, packaging machine INR 15 lakh (Source: Nachiket et al. 2023) Indian Farming 88 January 2025 funding for establishment of enabling infrastructure and systems can help in their penetration. These disruptive technologies will aid digital transformation of the post-harvest activities. The integration of these digital technologies is expected to contribute to sustainable and efficient handling of produce from rainfed agriculture systems, address challenges such as resource optimization, climate change, and the need for increased food production.