 Promotion of “towards organic” (integrated crop management) approach for intensive agricultural areas (food hubs) and “certified organic farming” with mixture of tradition, innovation and science in the default organic areas (hills) and rainfed/ dryland regions will pay towards safe food security and climate resilience, besides augmenting the income of farm households. Generation and addition of crop residues, green manuring, waste recycling, compost fortification, crop rotations involving legumes, establishment of biogas and expansion of agro-forestry are some of the approaches that will help to encourage biological farming and will also contribute to realize Gram Swaraj dream of Mahatma Gandhiji. His vision of subsistence and commercial farming for rural India can be achieved through promotion of organic farming or scientifically designed and integrated packages having Bharatiya Prakratik Kheti Padhiti comprising of several methods including natural farming, biodynamic farming and panchagavvya krishi. 97 Chapter 9 Environment-friendly Agriculture: Gandhian Principles H Pathak, M Shahid, Neeraj Kumar, N Jain and Jagadish Rane “The Earth has enough resources for our need but not for our greed.” MK Gandhi 1. Introduction Humans have shaped the destiny of the world with sophisticated scientific and technological breakthroughs with high potentials. Now they are looking forward for robot-controlled plants, space colonies, human intelligence matching computers and so on. The unprecedented growth in consumption and production of food has led to environmental stresses globally (climate change, ozone layer depletion, acid rain, acidification of oceans); as well as locally (pollution of air, water and soil and desertification). The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) cautions for precarious state of global environment. Questions are being raised whether growth at the cost of environment and its non-renewable resources are sustainable and the advancements in the scientific and technological fields are based on a situation where cooperation of man and machine exists with each other or the machine has overpowered human? The inter-relationship amongst development, environment and poverty, has also been identified by the World Commission on Environment and Development, and considered “Poverty is one of the indicator for global environmental problem”. The world and India, in particular is facing the harmful effects of environmental degradation today that Gandhiji envisioned in the early 1900s. The condition of environment at that the time was clean and pure. Bapu observed that the world would be hotter as oncoming disaster (Hind Swaraj 1909). He also added that continuation of trend prevailed during that time can make the world crowded, polluted, ecologically less stable and more vulnerable to disruption leading to serious stresses for both the human and environment (Global Report 1980).