 If we empower the rural people through improved livelihood with horticultural technologies, we can not only provide employment and income but can ensure the nutritional security. Now India needs nutritional security more than self-sufficiency in food production. ICAR and its institutes dealing with horticultural commodities are committed to achieve Mahatmas vision for a prosperous rural India through sustainable research-led innovations in horticulture. The recent pandemic incidence also has re-emphasized the Mahatma’s principles of rural economy and has taught us how innovatively horticultural produce can be marketed and play a major role in improving the economy of farmers. Fig. 7. Demonstration of mulching in pineapple at Nolvom in Nagalad 27 Chapter 3 Improvement of Indigenous Cattle: Gandhian Perspectives BN Tripathi, MS Chauhan, A Mukherjee,VK Saxena and V Bhasin “Humans need cows more than cows need humans. Cows need to be protected for humans to survive.” MK Gandhi 1. Introduction The indigenous cattle are the part of our tradition and culture since ages. Cows are considered as a part of family accorded with motherly status as “Gaumata” in Indian tradition. The ‘Lord Krishna’ was named as Gopal, which means one who protects cows. Ten important properties of cow milk have been stated in Charaka Samhita viz.“Svadu (sweet), sheetal (cool), mridu (soft), snigdha (unctuous), bahula (dense), shlakshna (smooth), pichcchil (viscous), guru (heavy), manda (low) and prasanna (pleasing). Several health benefits of cow milk such as enhancing tissue regeneration, and immune response for disease resistance and considered as a good food during convalescent period have been described in Ayurveda. India possesses large repository of cattle genetic resource diversity with a population of 193.46 million as per 20th Livestock census, which is 2nd highest in the world and showing an increase of 1.34% over previous Census. Cattle is the most prominent species of Indian Livestock with 36.04% share in Indian Livestock population. Crossbred / exotic purebred cattle constitute around 51.36 million showing an increase of 29.3% over the previous census, while the indigenous/non-descript constitute around 142.11 million showing a decrease of 6%. Out of total 74.59 million breedable cows, exotic/crossbred cows are 26.08 million and indigenous cows are 48.51 million. Presently, country has 50 registered cattle breeds distributed in their respective breeding tracts and can be classified according to their utility as milch (4), dual (10) and draft (36) and rest are non-descript desi cattle i.e., those which do not have definite or uniform characteristics like well-defined breeds. Theannual milk yield in India in 2018-19 was 187.75 million tonnes (Mt), of which 48% is contributed by the cattle (21% by the Indigenous cattle). Annual yield per cow in India is 1642.9 kg against the global average of 2430.2 kg (FAO 2017).