0/) Thermochemical Transformation of Agricultural Residue for Hydrogen Production in India Neeraj Kumar1, Deepak Kumar2, Ashutosh Mishra3 1 Mechanical Engineering Department, Delhi Technological University, New Delhi 110042, India. 2 Mechanical Engineering Department, Dronacharya Group of Institutions, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh 201306, India. 3 Mechanical Engineering Department, GL Bajaj Institute of Technology and Management, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh 201306, India. Corresponding Author; Neeraj Kumar, 1Email: neerajkumar_phd2k18@dtu.ac.in Abstract. India is a predominantly agriculture-based state, and the availability of biomass from agriculture residue can be leveraged for producing biofuels, hydrogen, methane, and other valuable chemicals. This article explores biomass pyrolysis as a crucial approach to India's renewable energy goals, focussing on hydrogen production. Thermochemical pyrolysis converts agriculture residue into hydrogen-rich syngas, effectively utilizing India's enormous biomass reserve. The key highlight of this analysis is the simultaneous extraction of biomass charcoal, that captures carbon and improves soil health, aiding in agricultural sustainability. The research primarily emphasizes utilizing agriculture biomass to produce electricity in rural regions, to promote energy sustainability. Additionally, the study explores technology as rapid and microwave-assisted pyrolysis to improve process efficiency. The study also examines the financial potential of hydrogen production employing biomass pyrolysis, taking into consideration aspects like feedstock accessibility, investment costs, and market needs. Moreover, the market demand research shows a large opportunity for hydrogen produced from biomass pyrolysis, with demand probable to surpass 7-10 million metric tonnes per year. However, the effectiveness of biomass pyrolysis application is dependent on complementary government policies, assistance, and energy efficiency initiatives. This paper highlights the significance of these strategies in promoting the widespread use of biomass for hydrogen production in India. In conclusion, this evaluation identified biomass pyrolysis as a novel and potential solution for sustaining India's future energy demands. Keywords. Agriculture residue; Biomass pyrolysis; Environmental sustainability; Waste management. 1. Introduction India has experienced significant population growth over the years and ranks among the most populous countries in the world. As of 2023, India is the world's top crowded country, with a population exceeding 1.4 billion people. Therefore, India's population growth is expected to keep developing, hitting 1.67 billion people in 2063. This population growth is accompanied by way of a growth in energy needs, which is expected to rise even higher [1,2]. Bioenergy emerges as a promising solution to tackle the looming energy crisis.