 idella the resistant species to this parasite. High level of expression matrix metalloproteinase 2 and major histocompatibility class II genes in skin during parasite induced inflammation was found in C. idella compared to L. rohita, and therefore appeared to be involved in the early protective response against A. siamensis. Lysozyme G gene of rohu having antimicrobial activity was cloned, and expressed in bacterial expression system, and the recombinant protein was characterized for its biological activities. Biomodulation of marine biopolymers for the preparation of biomaterials of health care importance: High pure acid soluble collagen (ASC) with potential antiulcer property has been extracted and purified from the airbladder of the fish Pangasius hypophthalmus. The purified collagen was found to belong to type I collagen, comprising of two different α chains (α1 and α2). Biocompatible chitosan, chitosan/ zinc acetate, chitosan/ chondroitin sulphate and chitosan/ zinc acetate/ chondroitin sulphate films were developed. Biocompatible chitosan based gel/sol having salicylic acid as the key ingredient was developed for treating skin problems such as warts, corns and calluses. Anthocyanin loaded chitosan nanoparticles with potent antioxidant activity were developed by ionic gelation method for nutraceutical applications. Particle size distribution analysis showed that the particles possessed a mean hydrodynamic diameter of 274nm. Activin receptor type IIB gene silenced in chicken myoblast cells: Activin receptor type IIB (ACVR2B) is the receptor of myostatin being involved in inhibiting muscular growth in chicken. Five shRNA molecules were designed and synthesized for transient RNAi silencing of ACVR2B gene in myoblast cells. A significant (P<0.05) reduction in the levels of ACVR2B mRNA was observed in myoblast cells transfected with all types of shRNA molecules. The percent knock down of ACVR2B mRNA varied significantly (P<0.05) from 87% (shRNA 1) to 43% (shRNA 5). Silencing of ACVR2B gene significantly up-regulated the in vitro expression of pathway associated genes (MyoD and MyoG) and immune response genes (IFNα, IFNβ and MHCII). Environmentally Sustainable Termite Control: Identification of alate-termites via molecular tools facilitated the study of swarming. Swarming in Odontotermes was correlated with rainfall and heat units. The ever existing ambiguity whether O. indicus is the synonym for O. feae was cleared; O. indicus was found to be a junior synonym of O. feae based on gene-sequence similarity. Post-harvest observation showed that termites prefer surviving on stubbles of previous crop-residues (maize) rather than same used as mulch. Combinatorial efficacy and compatibility of insecticides were investigated for seed treatment for groundnut in vitro and field trial with bio-fertiliser (Rhizobium) and bio-fungicide (Trichoderma harzianum).