 KVKs offered skill training in job roles covering seed production, farm mechanization, dairy, poultry, horticulture, commodity management and agri-entrepreneurship. Skill development training programs were taken up by KVKs since 2016-17 through certified scientists having expertise in the respective job role. The outcome envisioned through these training programs is creation of non-farm jobs in allied activities, generating maximum number of entry level jobs, skilling and linking all stake holders to agriculture value chain, enhancing the economic value of time and labour of landless workforce and enabling youth as agri- entrepreneurs. During 2018-20, KVK Scientists organized 1520 National Skill Qualification 167 Framework (NSQF) aligned courses of skill development programmes of 200 h duration to 30814 rural youth. 8.3. Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA) Youth play a vital role in transforming agriculture in India. Retaining youth in agriculture is a big challenge. At present, 35% of the total population are young as they are in the age group of 15-35 years and 75% of them live in rural areas. Continuous migration of rural youth to urban areas has been observed of late. Agriculture is to be made more profitable and remunerative for creating interest and confidence among rural youth. Fragmented land holdings are indeed a threat to food security for the burgeoning population. A need was felt for developing a comprehensive model of agriculture which is profitable for the rural youth. Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA) project was initiated in 2016-17, which is being implemented by KVKs in 100 rural districts. Skill training of 9900 youth was undertaken, and the trained youth were facilitated to start 2872 agricultural enterprises such as vermicomposting, mushroom production, bee keeping, nursery unit, IFS, processing and value addition. 8.4. Nutri-Sensitive Agri-Resources and Innovations (NARI) Agriculture sector growth has contributed mainly to economic growth in India over the past several decades, but nutrition still remains a major concern. Increased crop and milk yields, increased overall food production as well as productivity have enabled the country to achieve food security. However, the issues like growing number of malnourished, underweight and stunted children, their vulnerability to the chronic and often irreversible effects of poor nutrition are serious challenges to be addressed. Agriculture has a great potential to improve the food and nutritional requirements of vulnerable rural communities. Food security increases the food energy intake through increased production and consumption of major foodgrains, nutritional security can ensure the quality and diversity of food required for good health and nutrition. Nutritional security is a priority now where food security has been achieved.