57 kg/m3) and least in case of 1.2 ET (1.43 kg/m3) irrigation level. Deficit irrigation with saline water: In arid and semi- arid regions, limited availability of good quality water for irrigation necessitates the conjunctive use of the saline water to overcome drought and increase crop yield. To develop proper soil-water-crop management practices for Soil suitability maps for pomegranate in Madhya Pradesh Bajra-Napier hybrid for livestock A drive was launched to promote the Bajra Napier Hybrid (B-N Hybrid) varieties to improve the green fodder availability. Farmers, farm women, and rural youth were targeted through demonstration of B-N Hybrid at institute farm, organization of workshop, farmers interface meet, training, YouTube videos (https:// www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ro_HJb2UGGc&t=42s), WhatsApp group of Napier growers, developing a mobile app on Napier cultivation, All India Radio, DD News and publishing success story of B-N Hybrid in newspapers, etc. The YouTube video on B-N Hybrid was viewed by 24,585 viewers across the country and phone calls were received from 162 farmers of 11 states for procurement of B-N Hybrids’ cutting. The feedback from the farmers indicated that Napier growers are further distributing the stem cuttings to other farmers and area under B-N Hybrid cultivation has increased, which was not in practice in Bareilly district earlier. The farmers reported that regular availability of green fodder to the livestock increased length of lactation period of milch animals, thus, enhancing their household income. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 13 SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY Rejuvenation of Haveli system for drought proofing in Bundelkhand Region “Haveli system”, earthen bunds across the stream built to impound water during the monsoon, was developed to overcome water scarcity during the period of Chandelas and Bundelas (nearly 400 years back). The water harvested during the monsoon period recharges open wells and also serves as an irrigation source during the critical stage for kharif crops in the surrounding areas of Haveli. The impounded water is drained-out during the month of October and the Haveli-bed is used for cultivating rabi crops. The drained water from Haveli system is also used for the pre-sowing irrigation by the lower reach farmers. Wheat and chickpea are generally cultivated in Havelis using the residual soil moisture. Over the period, Havelis have become defunct due to damaged outlet, leakage in embankment, excessive siltation, breaching of embankment, etc. The Haveli system that existed at Parasai-Sindh watershed in Jhansi district of Bundelkhand region was rejuvenated through community participation. A drop spillway (rectangular weir) outlet was constructed to drain excess runoff during the rainy season. The weir was constructed at a height of 1.45 m from the bed level. The earthen embankment along with core wall was constructed in 50 m breached area.