 • 2‐in‐1 Maize Sheller‐cum‐Sunflower Thresher This gadget (0.5 hp‐single phase motor, inter‐changeable attachments for maize shelling and sunflower threshing, 100‐120 kg of threshed grains per hour output, cost Rs. 6,000/‐) has been developed by Bangalore centre, to cater the needs of small and marginal maize growers. Two persons can use it for shelling maize as well as threshing sunflower simultaneously. The technology has been transferred to more than 250 farmers in Hassan and Chikmagalur districts and the unit is in great demand in Hassan and Shimoga districts of Karnataka. • Thresher ‐ cum ‐ pearler for millets Vivek thresher‐cum‐pearler (cost Rs 8500, threshing capacity 30‐35 kg/h, pearling capacity 45‐60 kg/h) 16 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Agricultural Engineering www.icar.org.in developed by Almora centre is suitable for threshing, dehusking and pearling of finger millets (mandua) and barnyard millet (madira). This technology has been commercialized. Four hundred twenty five units of this machine costing Rs 37,57,000/‐ have been already sold to farmers, departments, NGO and others. • Value added products from cashew apple, pine apple, stone apple and custard apple Process technology have been standardized by Bhubaneswar centre for preparation of different value added products such as ready‐to‐serve (RTS) beverage, squash, jam and toffee etc from fruits such as cashew apple, pineapple, stone apple and custard apple. • Value added products from Jackfruit The process and protocol have been standardized by Bangalore centre for preparation of several value added products such as halwa, chips, candy, RTS beverage, squash, fruit leather, papad, pickles, bulb flour, seed flour from jackfruit bulbs and seeds. Processing of jackfruit into value added products would enhance jackfruit growers’ income by 2.5 to 6 times more compared to fresh jackfruit. • Rasper for tuber starch extraction An improved industrial rasper (cost Rs 30,000 and capacity 320‐360 kg/h) has been developed by Trivandrum centre for extracting starch from tubers such as cassava or tapioca, sweet potato, curcuma and arrowroot. Technology has been commercialized and 2 units have been sold. • Garlic processing machines An improved garlic bulb breaking machine (cost Rs 11000, capacity 800 kg/h), a garlic clove flaking machine (cost Rs 11,000, capacity 420 kg/h) as well as a garlic peeling machine (cost Rs 10,000 for batch type and Rs 70,000 for continuous type, both capacities 15‐22 kg/h) have been developed by Udaipur centre to remove the drudgery and mechanize these operations. First two prototypes have been transferred to 3 manufacturers each. • Turmeric boiler for on‐farm use A farm level turmeric‐boiling unit (cost Rs 10,000, capacity 225 kg/batch) has been developed and popularized by Coimbatore centre, which reduces the water and fuel requirement (10 kg firewood/ batch). The technology has been commercialized and transferred to 4 manufacturers.