 The present textbook is penned by the eminent scientists of ICAR-Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, an umbrella institute under ICAR, dedicated to research on fundamental and applied aspects of sugarcane. The Book attempts to address sugarcane cultivation practices in Indian states. The book comprehensively presents the recent cultivation practices of 17 states with detailed description on climatic conditions, soil, sugarcane-based cropping systems, preparatory tillage/field preparation, planting methods and geometry, fertilizer and manures, their time and method of application, irrigation/water management, intercultural operations, weed management, plant-protection strategies, harvesting, jaggery making, ratoon management, cultivation economics and constraints in sugarcane cultivation in a simple and lucid way. Each chapter caters to a single state. Since the information pertaining to sugarcane management practices being followed in different states of the country is not available at one place, this textbook will be a knowledge resource for the vast network of sugarcane research, training, extension and development activities. This book will serve the purpose of different stakeholders and interested readers and go a long way in nurturing the interest of sugarcane farmers across the states for sustained sugarcane productivity. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-viii + 466 • Price : ` 1200 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-242-7 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming 35 February 2023 Fertilizer crisis and ways to cope up S K Rautaray* and Swati Sucharita ICAR-Indian Institute of Water Management, Bhubaneswar, Odisha 751 023 Fertilizer prices have increased tremendously during the year 2021 and 2022 due to the rising price of inputs, sanctions on Belarus and Russia after start of war, and export restrictions in China. Such price hikes have burdened the economy of India due to a huge subsidy on fertilizers and the need of foreign exchange for import of fertilizers and allied inputs. So, there is a need to incentivize the farmers to use less chemical fertilizers. Some practical ways to reduce the chemical fertilizers include promotion of green manuring in suitable agroecosystems, integration of green manuring and rock phosphate and/or SSP to reduce the use of DAP in paddy crop, recycling of agricultural wastes at farm level using vermicompost, using other sources of fertilizers such as biofertilizers, city compost, cow dung slurry etc and adoption of efficient agronomic practices to reduce the use of chemical fertilizers. Wide scale adoption of these measures will help in reducing the financial burden on the Government of India and keeping the soil, water and air healthy.