 Keywords: pulley stopper, fatigue, bucket, lever, rachet Shri Joy Augustin and T. J. James, Fathima Matha, E.M.H.S., Tirur 7, Pookayil, dist. Malappuram (Kerala) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Amrutbhai Agrawat Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2964 Borewell digging with an improved machine 2965 Coir-rope-making 2966 Wooden plough To dig bore-well, the machine is assembled with Lambretta scooter engine. It is functioning well and goes up to 20-50 m deep. It is given to others for hiring and the nearby villagers benefited by using this machine in their fields. Keywords: bore-well, scooter engine Rope is made of coconut coir. It is prepared locally and used for various households and in farmyard. This also gives good income for the livelihood. Keywords: coir rope Traditional bullock-drawn wooden plough is still being used for ploughing. Plough is made of wood, sometimes made at home or hired on rent. Farmers treat this as sacred and worship this wooden plough and perform pooja, prior to going for ploughing. Keywords: wooden plough Shri Ramachandra Nilkant Chad, Ranewada, Porye, Sattari, dist. Goa (Goa) Shri D. Gauns, Porye, Ranewada, Sanquelim, Sattari, North Goa (Goa) 403 505 Shri Tato D Gawas, Porye, Ranewada, Sanquelim, Sattari, North Goa (Goa) 403 505 Content 8 Post-harvest Technology Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2967 Post-harvest technology for tumba (Citrullus colocynthis) fruits Farmers of western desert districts take tumba as a rainy season (kharif) crop. Matured tumba fruit has medicinal value for human beings and animals. Oil extracted from its seeds is used for soap industries. Matured tumba fruit is also used as animal feed for higher milk production. Farmers of Banner, Bikaner, Jaisalmer and Jodhpur districts of western Rajasthan use the following methods for seed separation from tumba fruit: As per requirement, pits are prepared and their walls and bottoms are plastered by mud and cow-dung. In this process seeds are settled at bottom. Seeds are taken out and spread on the ground. After soaking of moisture, seeds are collected and stored. Matured fruits are collected in threshing floor and crushed by tractor movement, which are spread on sand and kept for a few days for drying. Then the seeds are separated from sand by winnowing.Thus separated seeds are filled in bags and are supplied to soap industries and general market for sale. Treatment of tumba seeds for human consumption: Tumba fruits and seeds are bitter in taste. These are treated with the following methods to reduce bitterness: 1. Separated seeds are filled in small bags and put in irrigation water channels.