 However, unit costs might be lower due to potential economies of scale. In addition, given the investments already made in developing the UPAVAN interventions, it is expected that monitoring and evaluation, startup, and coordination activities will be less intensive at scale, reducing implementation costs significantly, as shown in the sensitivity and scenario analyses. Discussion This study contributes to the limited economic evaluation evidence on multisectoral nutrition interventions and is to our knowledge the first economic evaluation of a nutrition- sensitive agriculture intervention in South Asia. We found that participatory NSA interventions, with different combinations of nutrition-specific behavior change or PLA components, can increase child and maternal minimum dietary diversity. The total costs of designing and implementing the UPAVAN inter- ventions ranged from US$271,121 to US$386,907, and annual costs ranged from US$79,645 to US$113,241. Throughout the 32 mo of implementation, the interventions covered a mean of 4567 pregnant women and mothers of children 0–23 mo of age per intervention, and the cost per pregnant woman or mother (the primary intervention participant) ranged from US$62 in the AGRI arm to US$84 in the AGRI-NUT arm. Making comparison between UPAVAN and other NSA interventions is challenging due to differences in intervention components, delivery platforms, scales, outcomes assessed, and costing approaches. However, 2 interventions share some similarities with the UPAVAN interventions: NEEP- IE (Nutrition Embedded Evaluation Programme Impact Evaluation) in Malawi (11, 12, 44), and Mama SASHA (Sweetpotato Action for Security and Health in Africa) in Kenya (10). NEEP-IE integrated NSA with nutrition-specific training and used community-based early childhood development centers and parenting group platforms (44, 45). Mama SASHA promoted production and consumption of orange-fleshed sweet potato and integrated nutrition-specific and health components, delivered through health facilities, community health workers, and extension officers (46). UPAVAN, NEEP-IE, and Mama Sasha had similar cost efficiency, at US$62 to US$84 per participant in UPAVAN, US$160 per preschool child covered in NEEP-IE (11), and US$110 per woman and child covered in Mama SASHA (10). In all 3 programs, staff and travel costs constituted major shares (UPAVAN: 56–60%; NEEP-IE: 40%; Mama SASHA: 25%). Comparing point estimates, we found that, for child dietary diversity, AGRI and AGRI-NUT were less cost-effective than NEEP-IE and Mama SASHA, but AGRI- NUT + PLA was more cost-effective (AGRI had no effect; cost per food group increase for AGRI-NUT: US$603; NEEP-IE: US$444; Mama SASHA: US$305; and AGRI-NUT + PLA US$278).