 Chloroxylon: A moderate-sized tree, 9-15 m in height, and 1.0-1.2 m in girth, with a short straight, clear bole up to 3 m, and spreading crown, common in dry, deciduous forests throughout peninsular India, at altitude up to 1,100 m. Bark thick, corky, rough, furrowed, pale yellow or light grey, aromatic; leaves pinnate, 12.5-22.5 cm long, aromatic, leaflets 10-20 pairs, oblong, gland-dotted, 2.5 cm long; flowers white or cream, in terminal or axillary panicles; capsules oblong, glabrous, 2.5 cm long, dark-brown when ripe; seeds oblong, brown, winged. The tree is commonly found in the dry, deciduous forests of peninsular India extending as far north as Satpura hills and Chotanagpur. It Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Branch grows on the metamorphic rocks and bare rocky ground on poor soils, if they are well drained and contain a large portion of sand or gravel. It is also found on black cotton soils. Prosopis : A small to moderate-sized tree, evergreen or nearly so, with light foliage and rather slender branches armed with conical spines, found in the dry and arid regions of India. It does not ordinarily exceed a height of 12 m and a girth of 1.2 m, the maximum recorded being 18m and 5.4 m, respectively. Bark grey, rough, exfoliating in thin flakes; leaves bipinnate, usually with 2 pairs of pinnae: pinnules 7-12 pairs; flowers small, yellowish, in slender spikes; pods 10-25 cm x 5-10 mm, cylindric, torulose or flattish with coriaceous exocarp; seeds 10-15 in a pod, oblong, compressed, with moderately hard, brown testa. In Punjab it occurs throughout the alluvial plains, and within this region the tree occurs most plentifully in the drier areas where the normal rainfall is 10-25 cm. In peninsular India, where the normal rainfall is found to vary from 50 to 90 cm, the tree is gregarious but is scattered in open dry forests. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 150 Ward off mosquitoes by a simple device Volume 2, page 141 Orange Assamese: kamala, sumithra; Bengali: kamla lebu; Gujarati and Hindi: narangi, santra; Kannada: kittale; Khasi: soh- niamtra; Marathi: santra; Oriya: kamala, santra; Punjabi: santara; Tamil: kamala, koorg kudagu orange; Telugu: kamalapandu. Loose-skinned orange, mandarin, mandarin orange, santra Citrus reticulata Blanco Peel is used for marmalade and as boiler fuel. Essential oil, distilled mainly in Nagpur and Coorg, is used in toilet products, pharmaceutical preparations and confectionery. A small spiny tree with a dense top of slender branches, believed to have been introduced sometime in the eighth century AD, widely grown in India.