 The proud “Make in India” product comes with a very reasonable price, and can be used by any farmer/individual without any sophisticated equipment. The extraction takes about 20 min, and the test can be conducted within 10 min. The result can be interpreted by visual observation. The limit of detection was set to be 10 ppb, which is crucial for export of the produce to most of the countries. Natural ventilator based modular onion storage system A natural ventilator based modular onion storage system of one tonne capacity, was developed. During operation, ventilator takes the air inside the stored onions and pushes it out via the outer flexible blades. The exited air removes the respiratory heat generated by the stored onions. The removal of air creates pressure differential inside the storage structure. An Ultraviolet resistive polyethylene film covering is provided to protect the stored onion from high humidity and splash of rain water. The storage study of the onions for 4 months during May to August 2020 indicated 18% physiological weight loss, 5.5% rotting and 0.2% sprouting losses of stored onions. De-bunching tool for medicinal root crops The roots of medicinal crops like Safed Musli, Shatavari, Sarpaghandha are in the form of bunch with one end attached together. A manual de-bunching tool was developed. Its de-bunching capacity for Safed musli was 10.3 kg/h as compared to 7.5 kg/h for de-bunching manually. The tool increases de-bunching capacity by 2.8 kg/h and reduces material loss by 4% over traditional practice. Peeling machine for medicinal root crops A peeling machine was developed for medicinal root crops. There is also provision of water spray for washing roots before and during peeling of material. The developed machine was tested for Safed musli roots. The peeling efficiency for Safed musli was observed to be 92% in double pass. Washing of roots takes place simultaneously with peeling to remove out the peeled off material. The capacity of machine for Safed musli peeling is 15–20 kg/h. The machine has potential to mechanize peeling operation of medicinal root crops and to reduce drudgery, labour cost and time. Power operated baby corn dehusker A power operated baby corn dehusker was developed to reduce the drudgery in dehusking of baby corn. The slitting section and dehusking cum desilking section are operated by 0.5 hp and 1.0 hp electric motors, respectively. It has capacity of 25 kg/h. Slitting efficiency, dehusking efficiency and desilking efficiency of this IoT-based smart storage structure for pulses IoT-based smart storage structure for pulses was developed for one-tonne storage bin, based on the developed protocol. It includes three sensor modules and each module has a carbon dioxide sensor, temperature and RH sensor, and a display unit. One module has an oxygen sensor also. These sensor modules are positioned at three depths of one-tonne storage bin for monitoring and measurement of different parameters.