 5G is the key in this area because if such systems function on other legacy networks such as 3G and 4G, then there may be delay in transmission and uploading of collected data on the server. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report e = Critical communications: high performance, ultra-reliable, low latency for industrial loT and mission critical applications. This is also known as Ultra Reliable Low Latency Communications (URLLC). e Enhanced Mobile Broadband: Improved performance and a more seamless user experience accessing multimedia content for human-centric communications. This is also known as Enhanced Mobile Broadband (eMBB). Enhanced mobile broadband Gigabytes in a second —LA 6 3D video, UHD screens Ny Work and play im the cloud Augmented reality Smart home/building Industry automation _®D -—— Mission critical application Y Self driving car Smart city Massive machine type Ultra-reliable and low latency communications communications (Source: ITU-R Rec. M.2083) Figure 9: 5G Usage Scenarios 5G technologies in precision agriculture will ensure greater profitability and efficient utilization of resources by use of automated tractors / harvesters, precision seeders, and automated weed & pest controllers. Drones with 5G technology may be used for efficient & precise spraying of fertilizers in fields, and also to scan and identify unwanted weeds through the use of Al. It will help farmers to better organize and allocate their time and attention towards areas that really need it. Massive MTC and uRLLC features of 5G may also be used for remote monitoring and maintenance of machines centrally and that data could be transmitted in real-time. 5G is the key in this area because if such systems function on other legacy networks such as 3G and 4G, then there may be delay in transmission and uploading of collected data on the server. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 12 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 13 5G and beyond technologies are envisaged to expand on the IMT-Advanced performance requirements like Peak data rate, User experienced data rate, Spectrum efficiency, Mobility, Latency, Connection density, Network energy efficiency, and Area traffic capacity as depicted in Figure 10. (Source: 3GPP) Figure 10: Enhancement of key capabilities from IMT-Advanced to IMT-2020 (4G to 5G) Each of the different usage scenarios utilizes the capabilities of IMT-2020 to realize the various use-cases.