 Extramural Research Projects To address acute and felt needs for enhancing the quality of Agricultural Education in India, 63 projects were sanctioned on different thrust areas which hold scientific merit in terms of importance and urgency in judging impact and bringing quality improvement in Agricultural Education in India. The sanctioned projects were distributed under the following thrust areas; Avenues for mitigating faculty shortage in SAUs and DUs; Improving visibility of SAUs; Agricultural education for sustainable growth, Entrepreneurial skills and self-reliance; Success stories of agricultural graduates converted to entrepreneurs; Attracting competent faculty in NARES; Educational needs for promoting innovations in agriculture; Movement of agricultural graduates; Global scenario of agricultural education in India; Impact of international collaboration of SAUs; Evaluation of present examination system and its suitability; Assessment on retention of students admitted through AIEEA during XII Plan; Comparative performance of students admitted through various exams/means in NARES; Comparative assessment of private and constituent colleges for quality of agricultural education. Centre for Advanced Faculty Training/ Summer/Winter Schools and Short Courses During the year, 120 summer winter schools comprising 70 Summer/Winter Schools of 21 days and 50 Short Courses for 10 days were organized at various ICAR institutes and SAUs. The number of CAFT centres were increased from 31 to 40 with the addition of nine new centres during the year. Training of scientists/faculty members from the NARS system Training certificates being given to traines AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 90 The 40 Centres of Advanced Faculty Training provided training to about 1,800 scientists/faculty members from the National Agricultural Research System through 74 training programs in cutting edge areas of agriculture and allied sciences. The training programmes were monitored through workflow based online management system. A capacity building program vortal was developed to provide information on all training programmes, training proposal submission and evaluation, submission of application by a trainee, availability of e-books/lecture notes of a training and reports for all categories of users and several other features. Attracting talent All-India entrance examination for admission to UG: The 22nd Undergraduate Examination for admission to 15% seats of degree programme in agriculture and allied subjects, other than veterinary sciences, including the award of National Talent Scholarship (NTS) was conducted on 10 June 2017. The examination attracted a record 1,59,522 applications, out of which 1,20,318 candidates appeared and 1,450 candidates were finally recommended for admission in 55 AUs through counselling. All the candidates, who joined a university outside their State of domicile, were awarded NTS of ` 2,000/month.