 The new Seed Bill, which would help to streamline the supply of quality seed on new plane, is going to be the harbinger of seed quality assurance to the farmers and seed growers. He invited the views of the delegates relating to most important issues to be addressed in seed research during the next 10 years. The following issues were highlighted. 1. The newly bred hybrids/varieties are not seen the light of the day, hence suitable mechanism needs to be drawn to bring them in seed chain. 2. The seed production technology of unexploited crops including medicinal and aromatic plants needs to be worked out. 3. The vigour and viability of the seeds in relation to seed development and maturation is of prime importance. 4. Though we are talking about enhanced food productivity, the issue of enhancing the seed yield is an issue to be tackled. 5. The new areas of seed production vis-à-vis new provenances need to be explored in a network model. The documentation of entire seed research carried out across the NARS needs to be documented to integrate already carried work into new programme. 6. The effect of climate change on seed production needs to be taken up on war footing. 7. The issue of public-private partnership (PPP) needs to be on the common platform with joint working groups involving various stake holders. 8. The revalidation of new Indian Minimum Seed and Field Standards should be worked at the earliest to have our own seed certification standards. 9. The State of the art Referral Lab needs to be established to address all issues on seed quality. 10. Precision seed technology and innovative techniques, technologies and packaging to enhance shelf life of seed needs to be studied. 11. The work on seed physiology, seed priming and second generation seed treatment technologies relevant to the seed industry needs to be worked out.  of 23 Proceedings of Consultation meeting to prepare “Road Map for Seed Research in India”, 1st August, 2011, IARI, New Delhi 12. The off-season areas for seed production, mulching technology, SRI techniques in rice, mechanism of seed production to cut the cost of seed production needs special emphasis. 13. Steps to improve the quality of farmer’s saved seeds need to be addressed urgently. 14. Strengthening community seed system needs special emphasis. 15. Better inventions, innovations, novel seed technologies and analytical tools need to emerge from the leads given by basic and strategic research. 16. ICAR Seed Project (Mega Seed Project) needs to be strengthened in the 12th Five Year Plan to work on diversified aspects related to seed production technology and access to quality seed. 17. String of quality seed testing labs with one nodal referral point needs to be established. Drs. Sankaran, Swati-Sen Mandi, Sadananda, K.V. Prabhu, M. Bhaskaran, M. Dadlani, S.K. Yadav, S.K. Jain, K. Vishunawat, P.S. Nair, R.K. Chowdhury, N.C. Singhal, Randhawa, A.K. Singh, Janaki Ram, A.B. Mandal, P. Kalia, Manish Patel, Vilas A.