 Filling and sterilization of bags: Bags should be filled (1.5 to 2 kg) immediately after mixing all the ingredients. Otherwise, fermentation and contamination may start. Polypropylene (heat resistant) bags are used for filling. The bags are first loosely filled and later pressed to get cylindrical shape. After filling the bag PVC or iron ring is inserted at the mouth of the bag and plugged with non-absorbent cotton. Sterilization is carried out in an autoclave at 22 psi for 1½-2 hr. Spawning is carried out by removing the cotton plugs. Grain spawn is introduced @3% (dry wt. basis) under aseptic conditions. After inoculation bags are placed in cropping rooms where these are incubated in a 4 h/20 h light/dark cycles at 22- 26°C. Spawn run may take 60-80 days or more depending upon the strain and environmental conditions. During the period it goes through mycelial growth, mycelial coat, mycelial bump, pigmentation/browning, and coat hardening phase. A thick mycelial sheet coat will develop on the surface of the substrate. This will be formed after 6-8 weeks of inoculation/spawning in natural condition and in controlled condition 3-4 weeks are needed. Bumps Matured fruiting bodies of milky mushroom Fruiting of paddy straw mushroom (Vv-7) Fruiting of paddy straw mushroom (Vv-5) Indian Horticulture 98 are clumps of mycelium, commonly formed on the surface of most strains after 8-9 weeks while in controlled condition 7-8 weeks are required. These bumps can turn into mushroom primordia at a later stage but most of them abort. Fluctuating low temperatures and high CO2 promotes bump formation. Induction of fruiting bodies needs suitable temperature, high RH, good ventilation, and cold water/shock treatment. Sometimes cold-water (4- 6°C) treatment is also needed for 10-20 min for initiation of primordia. The fruit bodies further develop and become ready to harvest in next 7-10 days. The mushroom stalk should be broken from the substrate and should not be torn. Harvesting always be done at an early stage to meet out the parameters of the international market. Normally biological efficiency of the shiitake mushrooms is nearly 25-30% in natural condition and 30-35% in controlled conditions on the wet weight of the substrate. Marketing and value addition of mushrooms Mushrooms have enormous potential in value addition and preparation of value-added products which solves the problem of short shelf-life and help postharvest losses of mushrooms. From mushrooms, various value- added products can be prepared and help run the cottage industries successfully like Mushroom soup, dried powder, pickles, nuggets, biscuits, papad, kheer mix, cake, namkeen, preserves, mushroom enriched protein and nutrient supplements, etc. Several success stories have already developed by value addition, 1. Mr. Sanjeev Kumar Mathur, Jamshedpur, Jharkhand, is a successful entrepreneur around mushrooms production, marketing, and value addition.