 Design of earthen dams and retaining walls, stability analysis on slopes. Application of RS and GIS in soil and water conservation. Unit 6: Watershed Management Watershed concept, Identification and characterization of watersheds. Surveying: topographic, reconnaissance. Soil types and depth properties. Soil maps and their scales. Meteorological observations, monitoring, reclamation and conservation of agricultural and forest watersheds, hill slopes and ravines. Hydrological and geomorphological characteristics of watersheds. Land capability and irrigability classification and soil maps. Principles of watershed management. Development of watershed management plans, its feasibility and economic evaluation. Land levelling and grading, Criteria for land levelling, design methods. Machineries and equipments for land levelling. Unit 7: Irrigation Water Management History of irrigation in India. Management of irrigation water. Major irrigation projects in India. Crop water requirements. Soil water depletion, plant indices and climatic parameters. Methods of irrigation, surface methods, overhead methods, Pressurized irrigation system such as drip and 92 sprinkler irrigation. Merits and demerits of various methods. Hydraulics of furrow, check basin and border irrigation, Hydraulics and design of pressurized irrigation systems. Irrigation efficiency and economics of different irrigation systems. Agronomic considerations in the design and operation of irrigation projects, characteristics of irrigation and farming systems affecting irrigation management. Irrigation strategies under different situation of water availability, optimum crop plans and cropping patterns in canal command areas. Quality of irrigation water and irrigation with poor quality water. On farm water management, socio-economic aspects of on farm water management. Unit 8: Management of Degraded, Waterlogged and Other Problematic Soils and Water Problem soils and their distribution in India. Excess salt and salt tolerant crops. Hydrological imbalances and their corrective measures. Concept of critical water table depths for crop growth. Contribution of shallow water table to crop water requirements. Management strategies for flood prone areas and crop calendar for flood affected areas. Crop production and alternate use of problematic soils. Agricultural field drainage, drainage techniques and theory of flow in saturated soil. Flow net theory and its application. Drainage investigations. Drainage characteristics of various type of soils. Water table contour maps and isobaths maps. Drainage coefficient. Design and installation of surface and subsurface drainage system. Interceptor and relief drains and their design. Drain pipe and accessories. Drainage requirements of crops. Drainage in relation to salinity and water table control. Bio-drainage. Reclamation of ravine, waterlogged, swampy areas and polders. Salt-affected soils and their reclamation.