 Introgression of AI would further improve the nutrient and water-use efficiency, product quality and yield, and can help in accomplishing the goal of maximising crop production and enhanced livelihood. For further interaction, please write to: Dr G. Senthil Kumar (Principal Scientist), ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Hesaraghatta Lake, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560 089. *Corresponding author: senthilkumaran.g@icar.gov.in Vertical farming – Leafy vegetable cultivation Vertical farming – Foliage cultivation Vertical farming – Flower crop cultivation Low-cost homestead vertical garden November–December 2024 45 Smart postharvest management of horticultural crops through digital solutions Digital tools such as sensors, Internet of Things (IoT) devices, blockchain, and data analytics offer effective solutions to several challenges, ensuring crops maintain their quality and freshness throughout the supply chain. IoT-based cold chain solutions are gaining importance in India. These systems alert farmers and distributors when conditions are not optimal, helping reduce spoilage during storage and transit. Data-driven insights that assist farmers in making informed decisions about harvest timing, storage, and market prices offers solution for profitability and sustainability. By using satellite imagery, weather data, and predictive analytics, it is possible to optimize postharvest management practices, helping reduce losses and improve profitability for Indian farmers. In food processing, digital technologies are also transforming operations. Automated systems with IoT sensors and AI algorithms enhance efficiency and quality. Blockchain technology is another vital tool being explored to enhance traceability in India’s supply chain and provide end-to-end traceability, ensuring that both domestic and international consumers receive high-quality produce. This is particularly valuable for exports, which must meet strict quality and safety standards. Technology Suresh Kumar P.* and Shuprajhaa T. I N today’s fast-paced world, the rapid advancements in technology have significantly influenced the field of horticulture, which encompasses both perennial and annual crops, including a wide range of fruits, vegetables, flowers, spices, plantation crops, nuts, and exotic crops. Although horticulture occupies a smaller land area compared to other agricultural sectors, it stands out for its high economic and nutritional value. Over the past decade, the area dedicated to horticulture in India has increased by 2.6% annually, while production has risen by 4.8%. Horticulture occupies 10% of the land in India, besides contributes over 34.4% of the agricultural GDP and supports nearly 20% of the agricultural labour force, besides occupying less than 12.5% of the total cropped area. The importance of postharvest management in horticultural crops cannot be overstated.