0 cm. The plant is free flowering and suitable as flower borders in gardens. Grows well in the open. The plant is seed propagated. Barleria strigosa Willd Commonly known as Bristly Blue Barleria. The plant is a member of the Acanthaceae family. Flowers with light violet colour are borne in dense spikes in leaf axils, average inflorescence l e n g t h i s 13 c m with an average of 11 flowers per spike. Flowers are of size 8.30 × 2.95 cm. Though sparse flowering is seen throughout, profuse flowering is seen from September to January. The plant is suitable as a hedge or border in dense shade. The plant is propagated through cuttings. Pogostemon quadrifolius (Benth.) F. Muell The plant is a sub-shrub belonging to family Lamiaceae which is distributed in the lateritic hillocks of Peninsular India. It grows to a height of 60-90 cm, the inflorescence is a spike of length 11.00-15.00 cm with minute florets studded on the spike. The florets are purple. The plant is suitable as a flowering border in the open. The plant survives if sufficient irrigation is given during summer. It attracts a lot of bees, butterflies and wasps during flowering. The plant can be maintained by mild pruning after flowering. The plant is seed propagated. Indian Horticulture 32 Leucas spp. This is an annual herb of the family Lamiaceae that grows to a height of 30-45 cm at flowering. The plant produces small white flowers and attracts a variety of bees. This is suitable as a border plant, especially in a moon garden. The plant is seed propagated and care should be taken to avoid excess seeding in the location. Ocimum americanum L. This is an aromatic annual herb of the Lamiaceae family. The plant grows to a height of 30-40 cm. It attracts a wide variety of bees during flowering. The plant is suitable as a bedding/ border plant, especially for therapeutic gardens. Specimen shrubs Specimen shrubs add focal points, and beauty to outdoor spaces. These shrubs are selected based on their characteristics such as distinctive bark, vibrant blooms, or unusual forms. Specimen shrubs are placed either as standalone plants or in a group to draw visual attention and bring a sense of individuality or personality to any garden. Memecylon malabaricum Cogn Commonly known as Malabar Memecylon. This is an endemic plant to the Southern Western Ghats and belongs to the family Melastomataceae. The plant is naturally an under shrub and somewhat straggling under shade, but when grown in the open, it grows to a compact, erect shrub. Inflorescence is axillary and consists of minute flowers fascicled in many flowered dense cymes with flowers of strong violet colour. The plant flowers from February to May. Fruit is a berry, globose, 4-5 mm across. Fruits are green that turn reddish when ripe. The plant is suitable as a specimen shrub for open and partially shaded conditions; and suitable for container gardening. This is a seed-propagated plant.