 The present ICT road map developed by the Council will not only help in accelerating these processes and establishment of two- way communication system among different stakeholders with the Council but also support agricultural technology innovations based on disruptive ICT technologies such as Machine Learning (ML), Deep Learning (DL), Artificial Intelligence (AI), Blockchain; Internet of Things (IoTs) and Big Data Analytics. I would like to congratulate the team responsible for preparing a comprehensive ICT road map. I do hope that the envisaged road map would be used as a guide for development of ICT tools and software in future for use in agriculture and allied sectors. Dated the 13th July, 2021 (T. Mohapatra) New Delhi ix Hkkjrh; Ñf"k vuqla/kku ifj"kn ¼Ñf"k vuqla/kku ,oa f'k{kk foHkkx½ ubZ fnYyh 110001 Indian Council of Agricultural Research (Department of Agricultural Research & Education) Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi 110001 PREFACE T he Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi is one of the largest research, education and extension network of agriculture in the World. ICAR conducts, promotes, supports and coordinate research, education and extension across the country in the field of agriculture. In order to empower and support agricultural research and its e-Governance. ICAR developed various digital platforms. Recently, number of ICT initiatives has been taken by the Council in line with Digital India Mission, Government of India, with a vision to transform Indian agriculture in to digital empowered knowledge economy. In order to develop and implement various software and tools at the national level for agricultural research, education and extension, IT/ICT infrastructure has been created, such as, Advanced Super Computing Hub for Omics Knowledge in Agriculture (ASHOKA), ICAR Data Center, Krishi Megh etc. by the Council. In effort to consolidate and strengthen their ICT initiatives for improving efficiency, transparency, monitoring of various activities and optimization of IT/ICT resources, an ICT Roadmap of ICAR has been prepared by M/s. KPMG India in October, 2018. Most of the recommendation of this ICT Roadmap was generic in nature and needs further elaborations. After detailed discussion on recommendations of this report, it was decided to further refine this ICT Roadmap by taking a holistic view of the requirement of the Council and available resource to cater specific needs in future. Also, there is a need to elaborate IT/ICT system requirements in view of short, medium and long-term goals with specific timeline. In this context, this ICT Roadmap of ICAR has been prepared taking into consideration x the recommendations of the above report and requirements of the Council, elaborating the need of structural re-organization for effective implementation of IT/ICT activities in the Council.