 CSR 30–A New Scented Rice Variety for Sodic Soil A superfine grain and basmati type rice variety, CSR 30 (IET 14720) has been released by the Central Variety Release Committee for sodic soils (pH 8.8–9.5) of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana, with 20% more yield over national check (Taraori Basmati) with comparable quality parameters. It has highly scented, long and slender grains (7.12 mm), good head rice recovery (59%), high-kernel elongation on cooking, intermediate-gelatinizing temperature (GT) and intermediate-amylose Research at the CSSRI, Karnal, has shown that sewage water (BOD up to 500 ppm) can be used for growing paddy and other crops CSR-30, a superfine grain and basmati type rice variety released for sodic soils. It gives 20% more yield over the national check (Taraori Basmati) DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 80 content (23%) at par with Taraori Basmati. In the panel test, it was rated as one of the best cultures due to its attractive flakiness, aroma and fine elongation of cooked rice. Under non-stress conditions, it reaches 155–160 cm with moderately strong culm, while it reaches intermediate height (120–125 cm) under sodic stress which prevents its lodging. It is a non-shattering, suitable and scented rice variety for timely sown and irrigated conditions. Tolerance of Wheat to Saline and Waterlogging Stress Wheat yields are affected seriously in reclaimed alkali soils by stagnating water due to untimely heavy rains during its growing season as well as by rising water- table in different areas of the country. In a study on tolerance of wheat variety (114 genotypes) to waterlogging (10 days during critical growth stages), revealed that waterlogging up to 10 days at grain-filling stage was the most critical with highest yield reductions. Waterlogging along with alkali stress was more harmful compared to alkali or waterlogging stress alone in wheat (5 days of submergence) at the sowing and emergence stage. Evaluation of Tree Species Suitable for Highly Calcareous, Saline and Irrigated Soils For the rehabilitation of calcareous soils, 31 tree species were evaluated at Bir Forest, Hisar. Saline water was applied for initial 3 years followed by saline irrigation for 3 subsequent years during winter only. Ten years of experimentation revealed that lal-jhav (Tamarix aphylla syn T. articulata), babul (Acacia nilotica), mesquite (Prosopis chilensis syn P. juliflora), Eucalyptus (Eucalyptus umbellata syn E. tereticornis), Acacia tortilis, Cassia siamea and elephant apple (Fironia limonia) hold promise for plantation with furrow planting method in arid and semi-arid regions. Mustard-tree forage Grass for Management of Salt-affected Black Soils Management of highly saline black soils (EC 25–65 dS/m) of Gujarat was achieved by growing mustard-tree (Salvadora persica) forage grass based land use system (at a cost of Rs 2,760/ha at 4 m × 4 m spacing) economically.