 Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs), in tune with the policy directions and guidelines of Government of India and Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), have reached farmers across the nation using Information and Communication Technology to issue farm advisories along with COVID-19 protocols. KVKs also provided necessary input support by making available seeds and planting materials for local farmers. They adopted methods like door-to-door input supply, linking farmers for seed exchange using Whatsapp groups, better marketing of farm produce utilizing social media etc. The Agricultural Technology Application Research Institutes (ATARIs) throughout India, collaborated with research institutes and universities and state line departments to issue kharif advisories for the benefit of farming community across the country. The advisories include scientifically proven best practices related to crops, livestock and fisheries to be followed by the farmers to obtain optimum production levels with maximum profit. I am very hopeful that these advisories will help farmers and farmers’ groups in appropriate decision making in maximizing yields and enhancing farm income. (A. K. Singh) Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension) ICAR, New Delhi 1 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS AGRO-ADVISORY FOR KHARIF-2021 Introduction During COVID-19 pandemic, Indian Agriculture has established unprecedented production of food grain crossing the mark of 300 million tons (MT) during 2020-21, with record output of paddy (120 MT), wheat (109 MT), coarse grains (50 MT) and pulses (24 MT) in the food grain basket (2nd Advance Estimate, MoA, 2021). Much of this success has been possible owing to Governments’ efforts in reaching millions of farmers, providing inputs at door steps, proactive actions and framing farmers’ friendly policies during lockdown resulted into this stupendous growth in agricultural sector during pandemic. During 2021-22, second wave of COVID-19 pandemic is again posing a serious problem to the nation halting economic activities in one way or the other. The resultant actions may impact agricultural production and consequently national food and nutrition security. However, concerted efforts with suitable technological options can show sustainable pathway under such circumstances. Technological options such as direct seeded rice (DSR), System of Rice Intensification (SRI), staggered nursery transplanting, promotion of hybrids, bio-fortified varieties, focus approach on pulses and oilseeds, and crop diversification can help address these challenges but require new approaches to policy and incentives for change. In its 1stlong-range forecast for Southwest Monsoon 2021, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted normal seasonal rainfall over the country which is likely to be 96-104% of the Long Period Average (LPA) of 880 mm. The normal monsoon prediction indicates good agriculture production in the country.