 The animals were synchronized using GnRH and PGF2α hormone injections on day 0 and day 7 respectively. The estrous behaviour was evaluated after 48 h of PGF2α injection. The day when the dominant follicle disappeared and was replaced by corpus hemorrhagic was determined to be the day of ovulation (Day 0) for this experiment. Semi-intensive mithun rearing units: An alternative package of practices of mithun rearing under a semi- intensive rearing system was developed. Under this system, the mithuns can be monitored by the owner regularly for growth, reproduction, health care, and breeding. Nine units were established during the reported period benefitting 334 mithun farmers. Poultry Semen cryopreservation: Cryopreservation of semen from broiler (PB-2) line was explored. A fertility of 30.2 and 46.6% was obtained from 8% Ethylene Glycol (EG) and 6% dimethylformamide (DMF) respectively. Oxidative stress: The role of uric acid in alleviating oxidative stress induced mitochondrial dysfunction during different production cycles in poultry was investigated. The mitochondrial membrane potential of duodenum and shell gland moderately decreased with a concomitant increase in the circulating levels of uric acid with age. High levels of uric acid in the untimely moulted birds disrupted the integrity of intestine and shell gland, which lowered mitochondria membrane potential with decreased capability of ATP synthesis and resulted in altered egg laying sequences. The results indicated that egg production could be a function of circulating levels of uric acid on the integrity of intestine and egg shell gland. Breaking the seasonality of reproduction in guinea fowl: Guinea fowls are seasonal birds with average egg production of 90–110 eggs from March to September, i.e. during the period of longer day length and intense sunlight and almost no laying in winter. Seasonality of reproduction/ egg production is therefore, a major problem limiting its egg production and hindering large- scale commercial production of Guinea fowl. Dietary and photoperiod strategies were used to break the seasonality of reproduction during winter (December–March) aiming for reducing the age at first egg thereby extending the length of laying period and ultimately improving the total egg production. Exposure of guinea fowls to 18 h photoperiod with dietary inclusion of 20% protein, 120 ppm of vitamin E and 800 µg of selenium triggers onset of production with 53–56% hen day egg production, reducing the age of sexual maturity to 21 week, 71% fertility and 76% hatchability. These intervention increased overall egg production to around 200 eggs as against 90–110 eggs produced earlier. Mithun rearing units—Mai village, Lower Subansiri district, Arunachal Pradesh LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 92 Floor space: A floor space of 350 cm2 during 0–2 weeks and 475 cm2 floor space during 3–5 weeks was found optimum for KC ducklings.