 With his hard work and success, he is popularly known as 'Millets Man of Telangana' and got recognitions from various state governments, who invited him as a consultant to develop millets processing facilities and promote millet entrepreneurship honouring his contributions with several awards. Feedback for fellow farmers Shri Veershetty’s journey is a testament to the power of innovation and community spirit. He suggested the millet farmers and entrepreneurs that 'the key to success in the millets business is by practicing improved techniques for production, processing, value-addition, and good packaging, along with building strong market linkages' with various stakeholders. CONCLUSION From a farmer to a leading figure in the millet sector, Shri Veershetty Biradar story is a powerful reminder of how dedication, passion and strategic thinking can turn dreams into reality. Today, he is not just a successful entrepreneur but also a beacon of hope and inspiration. His journey from a struggling farmer to a thriving business owner exemplifies how blending the traditional knowledge of farmers with modern practices can lead to remarkable transformations. His journey and success have become a model for other farmers which continues to inspire many, proving that with vision, right tools and determination, even the most challenging circumstances can lead to extraordinary achievements and anyone can make a remarkable impact. His success study is a learning lesson for millet farmers of the country. *Corresponding author email: chapke@millets.res.in Table 2. Trainings conducted at the primary processing unit of Gangapur Training programme Purpose Type of participants No. of participants Exposure visit of farmers on millet processing and value- added products Importance of processing and value- addition Millet farmers 30 Training programme on millets value- addition to farmers from FPO, Koraput Value-addition FPO members millet farmers 30 Training programme on millets roti and snacks preparation to women farmers Value-addition SHG women 15 Odisha farmers training programme to FPO farmers from Koraput, Odisha Millets production and processing FPO members millet farmers 40 Indian Farming 19 November 2024 Organic rajma cultivation: A profitable crop for farmers of West Sikkim Ranjit Subba and Jaya Prakash Dulal* Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Gyalshing, Sikkim 737 111 The adoption of organic rajma (kidney bean) cultivation in West Sikkim has provided farmers with a sustainable and profitable cash crop option, significantly improving their livelihoods. Under the guidance of Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) Gyaba, farmers began cultivating the rust-resistant rajma variety HPR-12 (Jwala) through a cluster frontline demonstration program. The increased demand for organic rajma in local markets underscores the crop's economic potential, making it an attractive option for small and marginal farmers.