 Poultry Avian influenza: A total of 34,714 samples (5,757 sera and 28,957 morbid) received from 18 states/UTs were tested against avian influenza, of which 245 morbid samples from Bihar, Kerala, Maharashtra and Rajasthan were positive for H5N1 virus, 1 sample from Madhya Pradesh was positive for H5N8 virus and 352 samples from Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Rajasthan were positive for H9N2 low pathogenic avian influenza virus. A total of 142 sera samples from Kerala were positive for antibodies to H5 subtype avian influenza virus and 30 serum samples from Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Kerala, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh were positive for antibodies to H9 subtype avian influenza virus. Transgenic chicken as bioreactor for production of therapeutics: Transgenic chickens were produced through sperm mediated gene transfer (SMGT) method with an efficiency of 5.4%. In the transgenic birds, human interferon alpha 2b gene was introduced at the germ line stage for which ovalbumin promoter based transgenic cassette was developed, transferred and integrated in the chicken genome. Up to 45 weeks of age, transgenic hens laid 132 eggs with an average content of 30-40 mg of interferon alpha 2b protein in each egg. Yak Characterization of colostrum of native cattle and yak of high-altitude region: Metabolomic fingerprints of milk colostrum were studied between two native bovines, viz. Ladakhi cows (LAC) and Ladakhi yak (LAY) adapted to the high altitude of Leh-Ladakh, in comparison to Sahiwal (SAC). The majority of the metabolites were elevated immediately after calving (0 day) as compared to 2nd and 4th days in LAC, LAY as well as in SAC. Multivariate analysis demonstrated distinct clustering of colostrum metabolome in the subsequent day’s post-parturition. Across all the breeds, the antioxidant content was maximum in 0-day samples and subsequently declined in 2 and 4 days post-calving samples. Along with antioxidants, the total available minerals were analyzed. Most of the minerals especially, Zn, Fe, Cu, Mg were high in yak colostrum in comparison to Ladakhi and Sahiwal cows. Lumpy skin disease (LSD): Samples from LSD suspected outbreaks in 20 States/UTs of the country were tested to identify laboratory confirmed cases of LSDV infection for undertaking prevention and control measures against LSD in India. A total 2,456 bovine (cattle and buffalo) samples were tested, of which 1,156 cattle samples from 19 States/UTs (Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, West Bengal, Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Goa, Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu and Chhattisgarh) tested positive for LSDV.