 The highlights of discussions and Chair’s summary and Outcome document related to food security and R&D are given as: • The G20 member states, invited countries and international organizations participated in the MACS to discuss and identify the Research and Development (R&D) priorities in agriculture to foster transformation towards diverse, resilient and sustainable agriculture and food systems. • Global food security concerns have been aggravated by the COVID-19 pandemic and climate change. This requires multi-layered solutions in the spirit of “One Earth, One Family, One Future”. We intend to safeguard the global food security and nutrition by strengthening our efforts towards sustainable agriculture and food systems by leveraging science, technology and innovations. • Call was for increased coordinated R&D efforts to provide nutrient rich varieties of food crops for the benefit of farmers and consumers. • Recalling the 2030 Agenda of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and G20 declarations, we recognize the importance of research and innovation and call for sharing knowledge, experience and best practices voluntarily with agreeable terms in sustainable agriculture and food systems. We endeavour to intensify research and its implementation in agriculture and related sciences to improve the capacity of stakeholders, including local communities; indigenous people as applicable; women; youth; smallholder; family and marginal farmers. We intend to deepen effective collaborations between national and international research organizations for sustainable agricultural development. • We recognize the need for enhancing R&D collaborations between the public and private sector to build resilient agriculture and food systems, find solutions for climate change adaptation and mitigation without adverse effects on food security, protect and enhance biodiversity, and help improve productivity and profitability sustainably in global agri-food value chains. We recognize the potential of crop and livestock breeding innovations to improve environmental health and productivity outcomes. Effective investments in agricultural research and innovations will enhance the capacity to build resilience to climate change. Success of public and private sector collaboration in R&D depends on scaling up of innovations and information sharing. • We recognize the importance of digital transformation of agriculture and food systems in improving sustainability and outcomes for farmers. We encourage increased public-private investments and partnerships for improving communication and adoption of innovative tools, agricultural practices and technologies that meet the needs of stakeholders. • We call for cooperation in research and extension to improve responsible, sustainable and inclusive use and application of digital technologies for food production and safety, climate resilience, circular economy principles, and for preventing food loss and waste.