 All the people start from first field and move in the wind direction. One farmer suggested the use of leaves of another plant (keji) instead of Combretum ovalifolium. Keji can be found in hedge and bears small leaves, According to him 5– 7 persons are required for 1 acre of crop. This practice is very common for maize and pearl millet crops (Vagalkhor). 92 Smut control in sorghum by cow urine Cow urine is used for treatment of sorghum seed with a belief and experience that seed borne diseases can be controlled and also help in proper germination. The scientific reason behind this may be that the sulphur content in the cow urine help to control the seed borne disease like grain smut. The urine has a smell which may repel the insects, damaging the seed. Biuret content of urine enhance seed germination (Maharashtra). Parmar (1997b) 93 Disease control in sorghum by ghee smoke Farmers always keep firewood on hand to protect their sorghum from ratda disease. The wood is burnt in the affected field and ghee (clarified butter) is added to produce smoke that brings the disease under control (Kavachiya, Valiya). Choudhary (1993a) 94 Control of surface grass hopper in sorghum by extract of Aag Futla fruit Surface grasshopper, locally called khapedi, infests sorghum during the monsoon. Fresh Aag Futla, fruits are collected when they are still green, crushed in water and then filtered. The liquid is sprayed on the crop. The fruit is a berry and resembles the fruit of tindola (Coccinica grandis) (Bharuch, Gujarat). Vitthalbhai (1993) 95 Control of pests in sorghum and pulses by fence crops Sowing pearl millet on East-West and niger on North-South boundaries acts as trap crops and reduces pest incidence on the main crop of sorghum and pulses (Dharwad, Karnataka). 63 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 96 Controlling blister beetle in pearl millet by releasing coloured insect Kansia attacks earhead of Pearl millet. A mixture of liquor and mercuric oxide (vermillion) is used to control this insect. Vermillion is added to 50 to 100 g of liquor till it becomes scarlet. The insects are hand picked, coloured by dipping in them in the mixture and released. Seeing the coloured insects or smell of liquor, the rest of the kansia insects flee the crop. Sometimes, instead of the above mixture, the leaves of a grass known as kamdo is also used. The leaves are crushed with hands as one moves around the farm in the direction of wind. Kansia insects fly away due to the strong smell of the crushed leaves (Kheda, Gujarat). Pagi (1998) 97 Control of larval pest of pearl millet by spraying jaggery A larva which attacks earhead of pearlmillet eats away grains at the milk stage in the rainy season (kharif). About 25% crop damage is observed. To control this, solution 500 g of jaggery is dissolved in 10 litres of water and is sprayed on earhead.