 Country Year Purpose Data Collected/ Key Findings Reference Ethiopia 2018 Adopting and using different agricultural technologies – Farmers’ communities don’t accept new technologies due to age, farm size, family size, educational level, demand for technology based on farmer’s problems, and loan access. [18] The Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences (ABARES) 2016 Adopting and using different agricultural technologies Surveyed more than 2200 Australian farmers during the 2016–2017 growing season to compile the data used in the study Compared to their smaller counterparts, larger farms were more inclined to make technological investments and utilise them. The vast majority of the crop-based technologies developed by farmers were eventually put into use. Skills, internet connection, cost, and availability of new technology were cited as barriers to using information and communication technologies. [19] Southern Brazil 2014 The elements contributing to adopting precision agriculture technologies The core data for the study were gathered through the use of the survey methodology. Between August 2011 and October 2011, 715 farmers were chosen to participate in the online poll. The adoption of precision farming technology was driven mostly by a desire to, first and foremost, boost crop productivity while simultaneously lowering production costs. The expensive cost of the equipment and a shortage of employees with the necessary skills were noted as limiting constraints. The yield map and variable rate seedling were current adopters most commonly used pre- farandole tools. Additionally, the farmers’ expectations were not met at the time of adoption; nonetheless, 48 percent of farmers are content as of right now. [20] Nigeria 2013 They carried out a research project examining the applicability and opportunity presented by Nigerian agriculture They assert that the advent of satellite positioning and navigation served as the impetus for the development of precision agriculture. A study found that one of the variables that restrict the improvements that may be achieved with the currently available precision technologies is the relatively modest size of farms and fields. According to the research findings, it is impossible to implement precision farming in Nigeria, which was the ultimate conclusion reached. Attempts are being undertaken to figure out the procedures for adoption within the context of the Nigerian agricultural landscape. [21] R. Rakholia et al. Journal of Agriculture and Food Research 17 (2024) 101238 3 significant barriers to adopting ICT than people’s age. Infrastructure development in India is becoming an increasingly important emphasis of Indian agricultural policy. This is one of the main factors determining whether or not India will improve its agricultural technology [17]. Considering all of this, we can conclude that this industry has a significant amount of untapped potential.