 Stocks of important commercial fish Catla catla are prone to mixing with farmed genepools due to straying, stocking and transplantation programmes. This can lead to the loss of genetic variability in the species. In studies undertaken to address this issue, out of twenty four allozyme loci screened, five, viz. EST1*, EST2*, αGPDH*, ODH2* and ACP*, were found to be polymorphic. It was also found that allele αGPDH∗ 109 is present in the rivers of Ganga system only. This allele can be a useful marker to assess the mixing of stocks of this important fish species. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 130 and operation of CIFT-TED was carried out at Bhubaneshwar, Paradeep and Dhamra in Orissa during the mass nesting season of the Olive Ridley Turtles, at Shankarpur and Frasergunj fishing centres in West Bengal and at Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. Officials from State Fisheries Departments, Forest Depaprtment, State Institute of Fisheries Technology (Kakinada), Marine Products Export Development Authority, representatives from Boat Owners Association, NGOs, Garware Wall Ropes Ltd., trawler fishermen and net makers were benefited by the workshop-cum-training initiatives. The use of TED, combined with other elements of an integrated turtle conservation, can stop the decline in sea turtle population and will, over a period of time, lead to their recovery. An Expert Scientific Panel in a report submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India, has recommended the mandatory use of TEDs by all mechanized trawlers operating in areas where higher incidental mortalities of marine turtles have been recorded in Indian waters. Marine turtles are an endangered species, protected under international conventions such as CITES (Convention on International Trade on Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna) and CMS (Convention on Migratory Species) to which India is a signatory and under Schedule 1 of the Indian Wildlife Protection Act 1972 and its amendment of 1991. Normally, the sea turtles get caught in large numbers in fishing nets, especially trawl nets, during the mass-nesting season, resulting in mass mortality. In India, this problem is very acute along Orissa and West Bengal coast. It was against this background that the Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT) took up the design, fabrication, field testing and popularization and training of the fishermen in its fabrication and use. The device permitted 100% escapement of the Olive Ridley turtles while keeping escapement of total catch between 0.24 and 1.2% and shrimp alone between 0 and 0.62%. Demonstration of fabrication TURTLE EXCLUDER DEVICE (TED) FOR CONSERVATION OF MARINE TURTLES endangered and endemic fish Horabagrus brachysoma was successfully developed and this species was added to the NBFGR mini gene bank.