, 2004) and estimation of welfare status among farm animals (Stewart et al., 2005, 2007) using IRT is practical (Kni’zkova et al., 2007). A minute change in the udder skin surface temperature can be assessed using sensitive IR cameras. Thus, IRT is effective as a convenient portable tool in livestock management. Researchers have used IRT to assess the udder skin surface temperature (USST) changes in healthy and TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 96 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 97 mastitis-affected quarters of dairy animals and its analysis of thermograms (Sathiyabarathi et al., 2018). The studies were primarily conducted under the induced model of mastitis infection or simple assessment of healthy and mastitis-affected quarters. The current project is centered on acquiring thermal images within the animal environment to assess their Intramammary Infection (IMI) status. Subsequently, the IMI status is evaluated through the California Mastitis Test (CMT) and Somatic Cell Count (SCC) methods. The thermal images, captured after the diagnostic confirmation of the animal's status, serve as the foundation for developing an algorithmic database. Figure 1: Infrared Thermography The primary objective of this project is to revolutionize mastitis management in dairy farming through the utilization of Infrared Thermography (IRT). We aim to conduct diagnostic assessments using IRT, enhancing the accuracy of mastitis detection. Simultaneously, the project focuses on developing algorithms (DL-CNN) to automatically predict intramammary infection (IMI) status, streamlining the identification process in a farm setting. Beyond diagnostics, our ultimate goal is to implement precision farming techniques, providing actionable insights for proactive decision-making and optimizing overall health management practices. The major actors are ICAR- National Dairy Research Institute (ICAR-NDRI), Karnal, Haryana and ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi. Notably, the project strives to democratize access to this technology by ensuring its practicality at the farmer level. We aim to make IRT and the developed algorithms user-friendly, empowering farmers with an accessible tool for early mastitis detection and improved health management in their dairy animals. By bridging the gap between advanced technology and on-the-ground farming practices, we aspire to directly benefit farmers, contributing to sustainable and efficient dairy farming practices in the evolving landscape of agriculture. Furthermore, this project envisions encouraging start-ups to focus on artificial intelligence and mastitis detection database management. By leveraging the insights and data generated from our diagnostic assessments and algorithmic predictions, we aim to create opportunities for innovative ventures.