 A two stage composting using coconut leaf vermin- composting earthworms effectively recycled the recalcitrant wastes to useful manure rich in organic carbon and plant-beneficial microbiota. Introduction of the Indian honey bee through hives with two openings helped in orienting honey bees towards cucurbit flower in poly-house and assisted pollination resulted in 88.5% fruit set compared to zero fruit set in bagged flowers. Highest gross (` 2,52,928) and net returns (` 1,77,928) were recorded with drip irrigation (9 litre/clump/day) in combination of 100% RDF through drip with B:C ratio 3.37 in cardamom. A package of practices comprising soil application of phosphate solubilizing bacteria (PSB @15 kg/ha) or Azospirillum (15 kg/ha) along with NPK (60:40:30 kg/ha) was standardized in coriander. It gave enhanced yield of 47.6% and net profit of ` 98,750. Banana stem weevil was controlled by spraying with Beauveria bassiana (1×107 spores/ml) at 5th, 6th and 7th month after planting. Serious infestation of invasive Jack Beardsley mealy bug was observed on the fruit of many banana cultivars and effective natural enemies of the mealy bug were identified. Application of Isaria fumosorosea fungus strain was effective in managing rugose spiralling whitefly Aleurodicus rugioperculatus when applied at a spore concentration of 130×104 in oil palm. A modified integrated disease management schedule was tested in a bacterial blight affected pomegranate orchard with 40% incidence. The modified IDM schedule gave 100% blight tree yield of 11.45 kg/plant. The incidence of fungal spots/rots was below 2%. Livestock management: A new method was developed for production of carnitine chelated trace minerals, viz. Cu, Zn, Mn and Cr, which help in improving bioavailability and thereby improving production performance in ruminants. Correction of zinc deficiency in soil improved zinc content in jowar fodder by over 16 ppm. Its feeding to sheep enhanced their growth rate by over 40% compared to control. The extracts of Sapindus mukorossi fruits, Ficus bengalensis leaves and Eucalyptus globulus essential oils and their blends have the potential to act as anti methanogenic agents. Appropriate feeding modules to maximize the meat production potential in Avishaan sheep were developed. It may prove to be a good choice for intensively fed sheep for meat production in peri- urban and urban areas. FCR and feed cost per kg gain was better in pigs at 10% supplementation of vegetable silage in the diet. Inclusion of vegetable oil on isocaloric basis in diet during summer improved egg production and antioxidant status in laying chicken. In an on-farm trial in rural type chickens, Oxycure supplementation (500 g/t) of feed increased body weight gain. Supplementation of inorganic or organic Fe (100–300 ppm) significantly increased the egg Fe content without affecting feed intake and egg quality traits. Dietary level of 0.