 Uniformly growing 3 years old trees of the varieties Allahabad Safeda and Khaja were  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Emergence of new shoots due to bending Full bloom due to bending of branches Good fruit set after 120 days of operation selected and all the trees were given uniform cultural practices. Each plant received 450 g N, 300 g P2 O5 and 450 g K2O in two equal split doses, once during 12_15 days before bending operation, and again during marble stage of the fruit growth. The control plants were fertilized during August_September and January. Irrigation was given as and when required. Adequate plant-protection measures were taken. The observations taken were on days required to emerge new shoot, number of new shootlets/branch, days required to initiate flowering, days required for fruit setting, length of new shootlets at flowering time (cm), pair of new leaves produced per shootlet at flowering time, number of shootlets with flower buds per branch, number of fruits/branch at fruit set stage, number of fruits per shootlet at fruits set stage, number of fruits retained up to harvest/branch, number of fruits/plant, average weight of the fruits (g), colour of the fruits, sweetness of the fruits, market price, and cost effectiveness. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study It is gathered from discussion made with the practising farmers that bending is practiced in two seasons, i.e. during summer (April_May) to produce fruits during autumn to winter, and during autumn (September _ October) to produce fruits during early summer. The farmers followed mostly the autumn bending, which produces profuse flowering and fruiting that fetches higher market price. This off-season flowering fetches Rs 600 to 800 per plant instead of Rs 150_180 per plant in mid-summer for rainy season fruiting (in 5 years plant). The practice of bending of shoot is followed in the third year after planting of the trees. It is continued up to 10_12 years of age of the plant. During bending the leaves and small shoots are removed from the branch, keeping 8_10 inch terminal portion of the twig intact. It is also observed that when bending is done during summer (April_May), the new shoots start emerging within 8_10 days of bending and fruit set occurs within 30_45 days. After emergence, the shoots grow for two to three weeks, which is followed by appearance of flower bud in leaf axil. Setting of fruits takes another three weeks. In  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Table 1.