 Ngari is soaked or masoi nakupi is fried and a paste is made by mixing chillies and salt. Green cover of tree bean should be removed by scrapping with yoingkhot; potato is also peeled off properly and this is mixed with the cooked material. It is a good appetizer and about 95% of the population consumes it. Yongchak is a multipurpose tree and has medicinal value also. Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3611 Preparation of ethnic food, hentak 3612 Preparation of kangsoi 3613 Shingju—an ethnic food Keywords: eronba, yongchak, ngari, pullei Hentak is a preserved food, which is a common dish in many parts of Manipur. It is taken with morokmetpa (chilli chutney). Hentak is prepared by smashing hongngoo (Alocasia indica) along with a number of small sun- dried fishes (puntus species, phutunis or Eromus dandricus), which are preserved for about 3 months. Hentak of good quality is obtained after several number of smashings. It is an age-old practice and women prepare it nicely compared with men, because it involves complex procedures. Inhabitants of this region take it daily and it is considered as an appetizer and has good taste. Keywords: hentak, morokmetpa (chilli chutney), hongngoo, puntus, phutunis This food is very tasty, contains low fat, nutritive and can be prepared in any season. Ingredients required are: fermented fish, chillies, dry fish and moral napakpi (leek). First chillies, dry fish and a small amount of moral napakpi are boiled in water. Roasted nagari (small fish) with remaining moral napakpi is added to the boiling water. By this procedure dish becomes tastier. Potato is also added to boiling water after peeling and slicing. Other vegetables may also be added to the boiling water. After proper cooking, salt is added to it. It is garnished with coriander leaves. It is ready to be served. Keywords: kangsoi, low fat, fermented fish, coriander It is a hot and spicy salad of fresh local vegetables. The following ingredients are required: fermented fish (nagari), Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension Content ETHNIC FOOD Code No.