 Network development The network created by ABI CIFA across the organisations was key to success of new enterprises as it provides necessary support to the entrepreneurs in various aspects of the business. Through these networks the access to the services from various organisation had been easy. For example, the network with APICOL (apex body for subsidy delivery to entrepreneurs in odisha) had been helpful for entrepreneurs in getting financial support. Network with the NABARD helped in getting support from banks on the matter of credit. The related institutes like CARI, NRRI, IIHR, CIFT etc. were also supported entrepreneurs in technology access. MSME, Odisha has been helping the entrepreneurs in start-up Odisha programme. Coaching, mentoring and consultations Coaching, mentoring and consultation are important tools of information sharing and guiding the firms and entrepreneurs. The entrepreneurs in the pre-incubation phases spent a large amount of time in discussion with the incubators before taking their decisions. Similarly, large number of organisations were also benefitted by these processes to strengthen their capabilities in dealing with the emerging aqua- business enterprises. Some of the examples of such consultations were with DCMSME, Paradip on formation of dry fish cluster in Paradip; IL&FS on Aquaculture Cluster Development in Balasire; CESC- RP Sanjib Goenka group company in Aquaculture Cluster Development in Haldia, West Bengal; Mission Skakti Odisha in development aquaculture based women entrepreneuts etc. Similarly, some of the entrepreneurs consulting with ABI to develop enterprise based on new technologies were Saurava Kumar Biswal (Jayanti Rohu), Kailash Ch. Sahu, Gope Odisha (Fish feed), Navneesh Nalwa Sumrihi Seeds, Haryana (Fish manufacturing), Himmat Raghunath Rao Morey, Nagpur (Fish processing), Maalaxmi aquaculture (P) ltd. (Jayanti Rohu), Sidharth Roy, Chandikhol (Aquaculture farm), Zoo Fish Ltd, Bhabanipatna (Live Fish Marketing System) etc. Incubatees Incubatees were only a small percentage of total entrepreneurs with whom ABI is engaged. The incubatees were committed resources and time on particular enterprises and taken advantage of the incubation centre. Details of the incubatees across enterprises and their status is given in Table 2. Economic benefits The operations of agri-business incubation centre has been beneficial to the entrepreneurs, host institute and society at large. The entrepreneurs were able to find a platform to get exposure, discuss and decide on enterprises, access to technology, access to resources and enter into the networks. The host institute was able to find large number of entrepreneurs to take up the technologies developed by them. Scientists were able to interact with large number of entrepreneurs on the technical matters pertaining to their subject.