 It is a dwarf size meat goat breed and is widely recognized for prolificacy, skin, and carcass qualities however, has low milk yield. Ganjam is another local breed of this region particularly belonging to coastal areas of Odisha. Indian breeds of goat according to their major functions are classified as (1) High milk producing breeds: Beetal, Jamunapari, Jakharana and Surti; (2) Dual purpose-a (meat and milk): Sirohi, Kutchi, Malabari, Marwari, Mehsana, Zalawadi, Gohilwadi, Sangamneri, Barbari, Dual Purpose-b (meat and fibre): Changthangi, Chegu and Gaddi; and (3) Meat producing breeds: Black Bengal, Osmanabadi, Kannai- adu, KonkanKanyal, Berari Black, Attapady and Ganjam. A continuous growth in milk production has been registered in the country. Goat milk production increased by 14% between 2012-13 and 2017-18. Similarly, goat meat production in the country has also shown increasing trends. Goat meat production increased from 0.94 to 1.08 million tons between 2012-13 and 2018-19. There are virtually no religious or cultural taboos associated with the goat meat consumption. Moreover, the country is largest exporter of sheep and goat meat. The country exported 14,128.85 tonnes of sheep & goat meat worth Rs. 646.69 Crores during the year 2019-20. The country’s export of sheep and goat meat has shown declining trends during last three years (2017-20). The export declined by about 8 thousand tonnes between the same periods. Similar trends were observed in value term. The major export destinations during 2019-20 were United Arab Emirates (UAE), Qatar, Kuwait, Saudi Arab, Oman, Maldives and Baharain. The UAE alone receives 70% of total export followed by Qatar, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. 3. ICAR’s Initiatives for Augmenting Goat Production 3.1. Genetic improvement under AICRP on Goat The All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) on Goat Improvement is a major long-term programme focused to bring upon genetic improvement to conserve goat genetic resources in It was one Chandar Bali and his uncle a practicing doctor in London arranged goat milk for Gandhi in London from November to January 1931 Source: https://indusscrolls.com/the- expensive-poverty-of-mk-gandhi/ 43 their native tract. The AICRP on Goat aims to enhance genetic improvement utilizing the genetic variations in native breeds, which are evaluated through structured and systematic pedigree and performance recording of goats in the farmers flock as well in the organized farms. The major mandate of the project is to build up long-term capacity of goat keepers through technology demonstration, capacity building, application of health management practices and introduction of genetically superior goats germplasm for enhancing the production and reproduction potential on sustainable basis. Presently, a total of fifteen breeds and three local genotypes are covered through 21 centres across the country, coordinated by the Central Institute for Research on Goats (CIRG).