 The National Agricultural Research and Education System led by Indian Council of Agricultural Research has succeeded in development of many new varieties of crops and thus needs channelization in the seed certification system through adoption of minimum seed certification standards by the stakeholders to ensure availability of high quality seed to farmers. In this endeavour, Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India developed and published first volume of Indian Minimum Seed Certification standards in the year 2013, covering 198 main agricultural crops. With the advancement in technology, the process of seed certification has undergone a lot of changes and new crop varieties have also been notified, which necessitates for development of seed certification standards of newly developed varieties of the crops. During this period, research sector succeeded in development of approved varieties of new crops of spices, minor vegetable crops, perennial fruit crops, medicinal and aromatic plants and flower crops and were not covered in Vol. 1. Due to non-availability of minimum certification standards, the varieties of such crops could not be brought in certified seed production chain. Dr S K Malhotra, the then Agriculture Commissioner chaired the taskforce for development of field and seed standards for such left out crops. More than 15 meetings were organized with different stakeholders and now the seed production standards for 47 new crops have been developed after thorough discussion with breeders and Institutes of ICAR and states. The Central Seed Certification Board has approved these standards for adoption by the states and stakeholders. The second volume of 'Indian Minimum Seed Certification Standards' published recently contains information on General Seed Certification Standards including field and seed standards for new crops for adoption by the stakeholders for bringing notified varieties of these crops in certified seed and planting material production chain. I am sure that the seed production and seed certification agencies will be benefitted from this publication. The copies are available with Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture at nominal price of `300. E DITORIAL Indian minimum seed certification standards for new crops (S K Malhotra) Indian Farming 3 July 2023 Sustaining pulses production through effective weed management options Sonaka Ghosh*, T K Das and Ashutosh Upadhyaya ICAR Research Complex for Eastern Region, Patna, Bihar 800 014 India is the world's leading producer of pulses. Pulses not only provide nutritionally rich food and feed, but they also improve soil health and crop productivity. Weeds are the most significant biological constraint in pulse production. According to research, weeds alone reduce pulse crop yields by 20 to 40%. Efficient weed management practices are critical in increasing pulse yield.