 Foliar spray of zinc sulphate at 25 and 50 days after transplanting resulted in greener leaves (left side) as compared to basal soil application at planting (right side) Brown blotches and streaks of zinc deficient rice leaves Source: https://agritech.tnau.ac.in/ agriculture/plant_nutri/rice_zin.html Soil conditions favourable for zinc deficiency Zinc deficiency is associated with a wide range of soil conditions, viz. high pH (>7.0), low available zinc, prolonged submergence and low redox potential, high organic Indian Farming 9 May 2023 Green manuring: Use of green manures such as sunhemp in upland rice and Sesbania in lowland rice supplements about 50 kg N, 10 kg P2O5 and 20 kg K2O/ha. It is especially recommended in sodic and saline soils for improving soil pH. This enhances the availability of native zinc. Also, the green manure crops help to translocate subsoil zinc to surface soil through the deep root system. Moreover, the manures including green manures increase earthworm and beneficial microbe population. This promotes the plant availability of zinc. Recycling of crop residues: Crop residues are generally rich in zinc content as compared to the grains (Table 1). Moreover, the crop residue biomass is higher by two to three times as compared to grain biomass. Thus, zinc uptake by residue is much higher than in the grain. Recycling of crop residues as vermicompost or compost is useful in supplementing macro and micronutrients. Zinc fertilizer application Soil application: It is the most common method for zinc fertilizer application through broadcasting or band placement. Broadcasting and then incorporating during the last ploughing is very common. The fertilizers with higher solubility (chelated Zn and zinc sulphate) usually help to transport greater amount to the roots as compared with the insoluble sources. However, chelated Zn fertilizers are cost prohibitive. So, zinc sulphate is commonly used (Table 2). Foliar application: Foliar fertilization in rice is an effective strategy to overcome the deficiency when soil application is not feasible or when crop response is not positive due to soil constraints. The foliar application of zinc sulphate is very common due to cost effectiveness vis-a-vis chelated forms and good efficiency with little technical difficulty vis-a-vis nano zinc. Seedling root dip: It’s a cheaper solution to manage the deficiency. It is suitable for situations with temporary unavailability of native zinc due to antagonistic effect of high phosphorous from basal application and wet puddling of soil. Initial zinc requirement is met from root dip and the latter requirement from soil after the available phosphorous attains equilibrium with the soil particles. In our trial, roots of uprooted seedlings were dipped for 30 minutes in plastic trays. Seed dressing: Seed dressing with ZnSO4 or Zn EDTA is useful in alleviating zinc deficiency in direct seeded rice. The rate of seed dressing is about 2.8 g zinc per kg paddy seed.