 Bidyut C Deka1 Prospects Horticultural Universities, it is essential to establish a supportive ecosystem that encourages creativity, experimentation, and risk-taking. Innovation cannot be pursued on a project mode, but will need a mission mode to address the untapped potential that it holds. To develop such an entrepreneurship-oriented ecosystem, the Universities may have to work on the following three crucial components: Innovation Hubs: Our Agriculture/Horticulture Universities must evolve into innovation hubs where cutting-edge research and development thrive. By engaging students and faculties in tackling real-world agricultural challenges, we can unlock novel solutions that address the pressing issues of food security, sustainable agriculture, and climate resilience. There is a need for design thinking to be introduced for providing customer-centric solutions. Solutions need to be critically evaluated from the lens of what problems are getting addressed, how huge the problem is, what are the current alternatives which the community/ customers are resorting to, what is the market demand for such solutions. For all this, there is a need for inter-disciplinary collaboration within the University as well as with relevant industry players. The need for co-creating opportunities for such collaborations is key to innovations moving out from the shelves of Universities into the public domain, for public good. Incubation Centres: By setting up dedicated incubation centres within our Agricultural Universities, we can provide budding entrepreneurs with the resources, mentorship, and infrastructure they need to transform their ideas into successful ventures. These centres should be able to foster collaboration among innovators, students, youth, small businesses, academia, promote interdisciplinary research, Indian Horticulture 110 and facilitate access to funding opportunities. It is also important that a reasonable amount of autonomy and flexibility for operating such Incubation Centres must be provided for. In that direction, putting up an Incubator for startups a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) and registering it as a separate legal entity such as a Section-8 Company (not for profit) under the Indian Companies Act 2013 would be ideal. The SPV could be set up under the aegis of the Agricultural University. Such norms are already being promoted by the NITI Aayog, the Department of Science & Technology and other Ministries. Such a SPV would be able to attract separate funding both from the Government Schemes and the Industry for running an incubation services for entrepreneurs. The Assam Agricultural University (AAU) has its own Atal Incubation Centre since the year 2018, registered as Section-8 company, which is undertaking the above mentioned activities. As of July 2023, it has facilitated over 178 agri business startups and 42 startups have managed to raise funding to the tune of approximately ` 4.58 Cr.