 KVK has provided continuous technological support for advanced improved varieties, pruning techniques, micro irrigation management, rain water harvesting through adoption of farm ponds, marketing techniques like early and late pruning, etc. Sonaka, Super Sonaka, Thompson, Tas-E-Ganesh improved varieties of grapes were planted. Use of atomization for irrigation and fertigation, electrostatic spray for dipping of grapes was practiced. He used drip and sprinkler irrigation for whole crop husbandry. Rain water harvesting through farm ponds and use in water scarcity period was followed. Innovative marketing of grapes through box and punnet packing with retail and wholesale marketing was adopted. Information technologies like mobile apps, WhatsApp groups, Facebook, internet, etc. were used. Provided free SMS service to the farmers of the village as per crop growth stages. Average yield of grapes enhanced from 12 tonnes/ acre to 15 tonnes/acre due to use of advanced technologies. Economic gain is realized about ` 4 to 4.5 lakh acre from grapes. In the last four years, the farmer has been getting average net income ranging from ` 60 lakh to 80 lakh/year through his total land. Rain water harvesting system Rain Water Harvesting Units with micro irrigation system established in 201 KVKs across the country have been utilized to organize 645 training courses, 693 demonstrations and for production of 1,283,262 planting material. Further, 113,063 farmers and 10,924 officials visited these units and got acquainted with the rainwater harvesting techniques. Farmers’ innovations To bring out and share the benefits of farm innovations made and methodologies developed at grass root level by the farmers and rural youth, such innovations and methodologies are documented and validated by the KVKs. In all the zones, ATARIs organized Farm Innovator meetings in which farmer innovators presented and demonstrated their innovations—371 rural innovations by farmers were documented out of which 303 were verified by the KVKs. Thirty-two innovators were recognized and awarded at national and state level, five innovations were commercialized and two innovations were granted IPR during the reporting year. Mobile cleaning-cum-grading machine for Kinnow cultivation: Shri Sirbeender Singh of Muktsar, Sri Muktsar Sahib, Punjab designed and fabricated mobile Kinnow cleaning cum grading machine. This mobile machine is taken to orchards for carrying out cleaning and grading operation in the field itself for making entire process cost and time effective. This machine is tractor operated with a capacity of 1–1.5 tonnes/hr. Kinnows are sorted into six grades and cost of the Kinnow cleaning-cum-sorting machine machine is about ` 3 lakh and fresh supply of properly graded kinnow fetched higher price in the market. During peak harvesting time earlier he used to employ 5–6 labourers/day each for cleaning and grading of 150 crates (of 20 kg capacity each) of kinnows.