 Reports of root and collar rot caused by Phytophthora spp. and Pythium s.l. spp. are increasing worldwide, with notable species, such as P. plurivora, P. megasperma, P. palmivora, P. heteropora, P. drechsleri, and P. aphanidermatum, linked to root rot [21–25]. Symptoms include chlorosis, wilting, defoliation, twig dieback, and, in severe cases, tree mortality, all of which result in signiﬁcant economic losses [26]. In recent years, root rot disease has been reported in olive orchards in Morocco, pos- ing a new challenge to olive growers. In 2013, Chliyeh et al. [27] identiﬁed P. palmivora as a pathogen causing stem lesions as well as root and collar rot in young olive trees. More recently, Pythium schmitthenneri was reported to cause root rot in northeastern Morocco [28]. Despite their growing importance, little information is available on the prevalence, diversity, and pathogenicity of these oomycetes in Moroccan olive orchards [13]. This lack of knowledge complicates the development and implementation of eﬀective management strategies to mitigate the impact of these diseases on olive production. Therefore, given the emergence of root rot disease in various Moroccan olive orchards and the still limited information available about its etiology, this study was conducted in diﬀerent Moroccan regions to isolate and identify the main species involved, as well as to evaluate their pathogenicity. 2. Materials and Methods 2.1. Sampling During the 2021 and 2022 growing seasons, olive orchards in various locations across Morocco were surveyed to identify key symptoms associated with root rot disease, such as wilting, yellowing of the leaves, and root rot. Trees exhibiting these symptoms were carefully selected for further analysis. Root samples displaying characteristic symptoms of rot, such as dark brown to black discoloration and the presence of decayed tissues, were collected from the aﬀected olive trees in six provinces, including Benimellal (4 orchards), Berkane (5), Errachidia (4), Fes (3), Meknes (5), and Khenifera (3) (Figure 1). Both root and soil samples were collected from each symptomatic tree. The samples were placed in Agriculture 2025, 15, 435 3 of 15 separate sterile plastic bags, transported to the laboratory, and stored at 4 °C until further processing for pathogen isolation and identiﬁcation was carried out. Figure 1. Map of Moroccan provinces where symptomatic olive trees were samples, created using ArcGIS software (version 10.8). 2.2. Isolation of Pathogens Pathogen isolation was conducted following the method described by Drenth and Sendall [29]. Speciﬁcally, soil samples were placed separately in sterile plastic boxes and ﬂooded with sterile distilled water (SDW). Apple cotyledons, which were surface- sterilized with 70% ethanol followed by rinsing with sterile distilled water to reduce the risk of fungal contamination from the apple tissue itself, were used as bait and were placed on the surface of the moistened soil.