 Also, ICAR organized impressive exhibitions of the ICAR institutes on the occasion of 2nd International Agronomy Congress during November 26-30, 2002 and Kisan Samman Saptah during December 21-23, 2002. Reception and Monitoring of Public Grievances: The CP&PRO functions as Staff Grievances Officer under the direct supervision of Secretary, ICAR. Necessary instructions are issued from time to time to all the concerned officials for speedy disposal of the grievances. To cater to the in-house grievances of the employees, the ICAR has an Internal Grievances Committee. NICNET-based Public Information and Facilitation Centre: In pursuance of Government’s commitment to bring greater transparency through better access to information, a NICNET-based Public Information and Facilitation Centre has been established jointly by the three departments of the Ministry of Agriculture— DARE/ICAR, Department of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperation and Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying at Krishi Bhavan (Room No. 19 A). The centre provides information of state and central government agencies, economists, consultants, scientists, farmers and general public. CP&PRO is the nodal officer coordinating with the centre. National Agricultural Science Museum: This is a new and prestigious activity of the PR Unit. A National Agricultural Science Museum is being established at the Chaudhary Devi Lal Agricultural Science Centre in IARI, Pusa Campus. The work of first phase is almost completed. The work is being carried out by the National Council of Science Museums, Kolkata in consultation with PR Unit. After completion of the second phase, this will be opened to farmers, general public, scientists and various delegations all over the country. 233 Appendices 234 235 PART I The following subjects which fall within List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India. 1. International co-operation in the field of agricultural research and education including relations with foreign and international agricultural research and educational institutions and organizations, including participation in international conferences, associations and other bodies dealing with agricultural research and education and follow-up of decisions at such international conferences, etc. 2. Fundamental, applied and operational research and higher education including co-ordination of such research and higher education in agriculture including agroforestry, animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries, including agricultural statistics, economics and marketing. 3. Co-ordination and determination of standards in institutions for higher education or research and scientific and technical institutions insofar as it relates to food and agriculture including animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries. 4. Cesses for financing to the Indian Council of Agri- cultural Research, and the Commodity Research programmes other than those relating to tea, coffee and rubber. 5. Sugarcane research.