 We are now reimagining the Indian agriculture and prioritized for enhancing farmers income (200%), reducing fertilizer use (25%) and water use (20%), increasing use of renewable energy (50%), reducing greenhouse gas emission intensity (45%) and rehabilitating degraded land of 26 million ha (Mha). India, being a signatory and prominent member of the United Nations, has several international commitments such as Panchamrit and carbon neutrality, land degradation neutrality, biodiversity conservation, regional agricultural development and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Fortunately, advances in science have opened new avenues for addressing the challenges and fulfilling the priorities and Indian Agriculture after Independence 2 commitments. A multi-pronged strategy with integration, diversification, intensification, customisation, farm mechanization, value addition and market access are the way forward to realise the full potentials of Indian farming with focus on profitable commercialization and export, ecosystem approach, sustainable agri-food system involving smart farmers and farming, post-harvest value addition and entrepreneurship engaging youth and women. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and the National Agricultural Research, Education and Extension System (NAREES), are determined to harness the advances of science and technology to infuse pull and push in agriculture for an all-round welfare of the society. 1. Introduction Agriculture is the foundation of livelihood, civilization, culture and heritage of India. With a population of 1.39 billion, India is the world’s second most populous country, and is projected to become most populous by 2027-30, leaving China behind. It is the 7th largest country geographically in the world with 328 Mha area. India has about 160 Mha of arable land, second largest after the United States of America and experiences all the 15 prominent climates with 46 out of 60 soil-types that exist on the earth. About 50% of its total geographical area is cultivated which ranks it among the top user of the land for agriculture. In the more geographically suitable Indo-Gangetic Plain (IGP) and the deltas of the eastern coast, the proportion of cultivated to total geographical area often exceeds 90%. Indian agriculture, one of the oldest systems of the world; is diverse, heterogeneous, unorganized and often subjected to vagaries at various phases from ‘seed to market’. It is the critical sector of economy for the sustainable and inclusive economic growth of the country. The sector engages 49.6% of the workforce, often seasonally, under-employed, under-paid and accounts for about 17% share in India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Indian agriculture began as early as 11,000 BP with the domestication of animals and early cultivation of plants as evidenced in the ancient literature.