 The FPKM based expression profiling was performed and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in response to drought were identified. Among DEGs, several transcription factors encoding genes were identified, which belong to various abiotic stress related TF families. The MIcroSAtellite identification tool (MISA) was employed to identify SSR markers from assembled transcriptome data. More than 8500 genic SSR markers were identified, which may be utilized for studying polymorphism in C. microphyllum genetic pool. Identification of genes/QTLs for heat tolerance in lentil: Heat stress is one of the universal stresses faced by all organisms. To cope up with heat stress, plants have developed large heat shock factor (HSF) families and a complex transcriptional network composed of many transcription factors (TFs). Activation of HSFs is an important step for initiation of heat stress response. Many homologous HSF gene sequences were obtained through NCBI and Knowpulse database. The expression of nine HSFs (HSFA3, HSFA8, HSFA4a, HSFA1b, HSFB2, HSFB2a, HSF25, HSF33 and HSF34), was analyzed in heat stressed leaf samples of lentil. The genes were amplified from lentil and cloned in TA cloning vector. These partial fragments were sequenced and found homologous to corresponding HSF isoforms. In order to perform the functional characterization of HSF genes, full length gene sequences were determined using RACE (Rapid amplification of cDNA ends). Gene specific primers (GSPs) were prepared for nine HSFs. Seeds of lentil variety HUL 57, a locally grown and popular variety were germinated in pots. During vegetative stage, heat stress was imposed at various regimes: 1 h, 3 h, 6 h, 24 h and intermittent heat stress of 3 h for 3 days (3 h, 3d). The leaf samples were harvested and RNA was isolated. The RNA quality and quantity were screened through gel electrophoresis and Nano-drop spectrophotometer. All the samples were found to have satisfactory RNA quality. Transcriptome resources for indigenous agri- horticultural crops: This study included 224 accessions of heterophyllus collected by the ICAR-National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources (NBPGR), Regional Station, Ranchi, Jharkhand from three agro-climatic zones comprising five different states of India. A total of 142 alleles at the 38 genic-SSR loci in 224 accessions of A. heterophyllus were detected. The number of alleles per locus ranged from 2 to 5, with a mean value of 3.74. The PIC values for the genic-SSR loci ranged from 0.25 to 0.69, with an average of 0.51. Analysis of distribution pattern of alleles among populations Lipoxygenase-2 free soybean variety NRC 132 Sampling distribution of germplasm accessions of A.