 In India, new records are being established in the agriculture sector. India’s foodgrain production for the 2016-17 is estimated at record 275.68 million tonnes, which is over 4% higher than the previous record production achieved in the country during 2013-14. In this endeavour, the Indian Council Agricultural Research (ICAR) has played a vital role by way of technology development, demonstration and transfer in India. The National Agricultural Research System (NARS) of the country has taken up number of activities through Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) and other programmes for application of farm technologies in farmers’field. Besides, taking up technology assessment, refinement, demonstration and capacity development programmes during the year, the other initiatives such as Farmers FIRST, Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA), Climate Resilient Integrated Farming Systems (IFS), Cluster Frontline Demonstration (CFLD) of pulses and oilseeds, Cereal Systems Initiatives for South Asia (CSISA), documentation and registration of farmers’ varieties under PPV&FRA, Pulses Seed Hubs, KVK Portal, Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav and awareness creations about mega government schemes, etc. were also implemented to espouse the cause of farming community through technology application with their active participation. Mobile advisory was provided for timely and need based information to the farming community. Information on weather, market, various farm operations, outbreak of pest and disease incidences and their control measures were provided to farmers through Short Message Service (SMS). On ICAR’s 89th Foundation Day Hon’able Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare launched the flagship educational initiative in the form of a National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP). To sustain agricultural production, food security of the nation, and agriculture-dependent rural livelihoods in the face of changing climate, it is very pertinent to evolve adaptation strategies to minimize the adverse effect of climate change and also initiate mitigation strategies to reduce greenhouse gases (GHGs) emissions from agriculture and allied sectors. The ICAR launched a prestigious project, National Initiative on Climate Resilient Agriculture, which metamorphosed into the National Innovations in Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA). One of the major achievements so far in the NICRA project is development and standardization of state-of-the-art infrastructure for climate change research, such as High Throughput Plant Phenomics facilities, Free Air Temperature Environment (FATE), Carbon Dioxide Temperature Gradient (CTGC), Eddy Covariance Towers, Automatic Weather Stations, Satellite Data Reception System, Rainout shelter facility, Animal Calorimeter, CO2 Environmental Chambers, Custom designed animal shed, Research Shipping Vessel etc.