 germination, cooking, roasting, frying, canning and fermentation. Use in traditional products, protein concentrates and isolates. Modified starches and proteins. Oilseeds: edible oilseeds, composition and importance in India. Oilseed processing. Oil extraction and its processing, by-products of oil refining. Production, packaging and storage of vanaspati, peanut butter, protein concentrates, isolates and their use in high protein foods. Export of oilseed cakes. International market and consumer preferences for quality in cakes for use in textured vegetable proteins. Millets: composition, nutritional significance, structure and processing. Dairy analogues based on plant milk. Unit 3: Technology of Foods of Animal Origin Technology of Milk and Milk Products: Milk and Milk production in India. Importance of milk processing plants in the country. Handling and maintenance of dairy plant equipment. Dairy plant operations viz. receiving, separation, clarification, pasteurization, standardization, homogenization, sterilization, storage, transport and distribution of milk. Problems of milk supply in India. UHT, toned, humanized, fortified, reconstituted and flavoured milks. Technology of fermented milks. Milk products processing viz. cream, butter, ghee, cheese, condensed milk, evaporated milk, whole and skimmed milk powder, ice-cream, butter oil, khoa, channa, paneer and similar products. Judging and grading of milk products. Cheese spreads by spray and roller drying techniques. EMC (Enzyme modified cheese), Enzymes in dairy processing. Sanitization viz. selection and use of dairy cleaner 81 and sanitizer. In plant cleaning system. Scope and functioning of milk supply schemes and various national and international organizations. Specifications and standards in milk processing industry. Dairy plant sanitation and waste disposal. Technology of Meat / Fish / Poultry Products: Scope of meat, fish and poultry Processing industry in India, Chemistry and microscopic structure of meat tissue, Ante mortem inspection, Slaughter and dressing of various animals and poultry birds, Post mortem examination, Rigor mortis, Retails and wholesale cuts, Factors affecting meat quality. Curing, smoking, freezing, canning and dehydration of meat, poultry and their products. Sausage making. Microbial factors influencing keeping quality of meat. Processing and preservation of fish and its products. Handling, canning, smoking and freezing of fresh water fish and its products. Meat tenderization and role of enzymes in meat processing. Utilization of by-products. Zoonotic diseases. Structure and composition of egg and factors affecting quality. Quality measurement. Preservation of eggs using oil coating, refrigeration, thermo stabilization and antibiotics. Packing, storage and transportation of eggs. Technology of egg products viz. egg powder, albumen, flakes and calcium tablets. Industrial and food user physiological conditions and quality of fish products.