 All the crop improvement programmes needs to have standardized seed production and protection technology before a new hybrid or variety is released. 19. Developing policy document to enable contact seed farming. 20. Use of second generation tools for seed quality assessment. 21. Developing weed seed herbarium and weed seed identification handbook. 22. The blue book has been published long back the amendment has not been put to the book of Indian minimum seed certification standards which was published in 1988. Hand book of seed testing has to be revised since it was published in 1993. Hence revalidation seed and field standards need to be taken up on priority. 23. Standardizing quality measures for primed and colored seeds. 24. Harmonization of morphological traits in GOT and DUS testing. 25. Enhancing quality seed availability through farmers' participatory seed production, and developing new models for strengthening community seed systems 26. Standardizing seed production technology and standards for genetically modified seed crops. 27. Pest risk analysis and Identification of (pest) disease free zones for quality seed production to harmonize with the OECD standards, and identification of pest and disease free zones and disease and pest risk analysis Dr. HS Gupta, Director, IARI and Dr. RR Hanchinal, Vice-chancellor, UAS, Dharwad addressing the delegates  of 23 Proceedings of Consultation meeting to prepare “Road Map for Seed Research in India”, 1st August, 2011, IARI, New Delhi PROPOSED ROAD MAP Three network projects are proposed to work on following priority areas: A. Seed production 1. Network project on identification of alternative areas for hybrid seed production in rice, maize and vegetables (main/off-season, staggered sowing, protected cultivation etc.) and off-season ground nut. 2. Network project on validation/upgradation of field and seed standards/protocols - isolation distance - sample size - physical purity and ODV - designated disease - seed health 3. Identification of major seed-borne diseases and developing seed standards for the same. B. Seed Quality Assurance 1. Establishment of referral laboratory for seed quality evaluation. 2. Referral laboratory for DNA finger printing of varieties for establishing identity and genetic purity. C. Human Resource Development 1. Gap analysis of wave-length of academic curricula and upcoming seed- industrial requirements (as put forth by the industry) to synchronize the academic and industrial expectations synergistically 2. Development of effective R&D linkages between NSP centres, seed technology units at ICAR institutes, SAUs and private seed companies. 3. Exposure visits and advanced training of the scientists in reputed labs (both national & international).  of 23 Proceedings of Consultation meeting to prepare “Road Map for Seed Research in India”, 1st August, 2011, IARI, New Delhi Session II: Basic research and seed quality enhancement Chairperson : Dr. J.S.