 This is all because they do not find agriculture very lucrative and profitable; and above all, it to be a respectable profession to provide better means of living . At present, we are lacking a clear strategy and an enabling environment to motivate and attract youth in agriculture. What lacks to attract youth in agriculture: Following are some pointers. Lack access to relevant knowledge — need institutional backing for providing knowledge. Dr R.S. Paroda is the founding Chairman of the Trust for Advancement of Agricultural Sciences (TAAS) and former Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) and Director General of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). He has contributed enormously in agricultural development both as a researcher and as an agile administrator. His contributions in plant breeding and genetic resource management are well recognized globally. 116 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series No exposure to agriculture in schools; so students do not know what is agriculture, who don’t belong to farming community . But now with the new education policy, agriculture would be taught in schools and this may create their interest in agriculture. Limited access to land — as 85 per cent farmers have small land holdings and thus returns are not going to be profitable. Lack of financial resources; as they are not aware of government schemes and do not know from where they can get financial support. Difficulties in linking to markets ( the markets are far ). No voice in decision-making, as elders do not listen to them. Poor social image of agriculture due to poor income and lack of infrastructure and lack of infrastructure facilities in rural areas. There also exists aspiration attainment gap due to lack of hand-holding, mentorship and funding support. General challenges in agriculture: Agriculture is currently facing numerous challenges such as overexploitation of natural resources (land, water and agrobiodiversity), decline in factor productivity, costly inputs, low income and production uncertainties due to adverse effects of climate change. Under such a scenario, involvement of youth in agriculture would play an important role as they are energetic, innovative and are more receptive to new ideas and adoption of advanced technologies. In addition, they have the courage to take risks, which is a critical step for any new enterprise. Government initiatives for youth: Certain initiatives have been taken by the government to benefit youth. To harness the potential of youth and to take the benefit of demographic dividend holistically, Government of India has announced multifarious schemes. These schemes are based on the principle of social inclusion, gender equality and sustainable development of rural areas. Project ARYA focuses on empower- ing and involving the rural youth in various agricultural and allied sector entrepreneurial activities.