 The naked neck gene (Na) has been introduced for general reduction of feathers (14 to 20%), rapid growth, efficient feed conversion, excellent livability and competitive yield of lean meat. Emeritus Scientist ● Prof. S K Roy studied water chestnut, which has a very short shelf-life therefore it needs to be marketed immediately after harvesting. In a study on the integrated post harvest management of horticultural crops, fresh water chestnuts stored in an environment friendly cool chamber developed based on the principle of evaporative cooling (19-22°C and RH 94-95%) by the IARI, retained freshness up to 7 days while they became unmarketable within 2 days under ambient room temperature (21-27°C and RH 73-80%) and 4 days under cool storage condition (7-9°C and RH 75-85%). The water chestnut kernels stored in new cool chamber were fresh, firm and crispy while both the ambient and cool stored samples were desiccated, soft and mealy. This was also evident from the texture value measured with the help of Instron and expressed in terms of Newton. ● Diversification of cytoplasmic base of hybrid seed parents would greatly facilitate the diversification of nuclear genotypes of elite hybrid parental lines, and thus reduce the genetic vulnerability of such hybrids to disease and also help in producing high yielding hybrids. At present the entire pearl millet hybrid seed industry in India is based on A1 cytoplasm, which has it own demerits. Under a study on diversification of cytoplasmic male sterility and pollinator lines in pearl millet conducted at IARI, by Prof. O P Govila, a new A4 cytoplasmic nuclear male sterility system has been made available from wild species Pennisetum monodii that is highly stable. Following important results have been obtained utilizing A4 CMS system. Pusa 23 is one of the present day most important hybrid of the country, which is based on A1 CMS. In the seed production plots, the seed parent 841 A1 has been found to throw pollen shedders due to mutations and modifiers thus lowering the quality of hybrid seed. In the present investigation when 841 B1 was crossed to 81 it showed perfect maintenance. By DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 162 ● Different vegetative propagation methods were tried for commercial production of good quality pods, true- to type planting material raised from elite trees identified to produce sweet, fibreless, tender, small seeded, green and long pods. Excellent success was obtained in propagation by patch budding ● Special allocations were made for Home Science and fishery colleges for infrastructural development during the IX Plan backcrossing programme CMS 841 has been converted into A4 background. The CMS line is completely stable and does not throw any pollen shedders. Thus the commercial F1 seed will now be genetically pure. A large number of crosses were made between 81 A4 X inbred lines. It was observed that the F1 crosses showed both restoration and maintenance.