 For wheat, the yield difference between the median low and high irrigation fre­ quency systems was 0.7 t/ha (see Fig. 3, p < 0.01). This positive yield response to increasing irrigation intensity holds true when controlling for other variables and contributing factors (Fig. 3). Although our models do not control for unobserved variables, agronomic studies in these systems have consistently shown that planting dates, fertilizer, varieties, soil types and especially irrigation are consistently the most important predictors for yield (Devkota et al., 2021; McDonald et al., 2022). Next, we cautiously estimated FDPIs. To make best use of our unique dataset, we focused on key costs of reported fertilizer, and average per ha values for seed, labor and machinery use. For irrigation, we assumed free irrigation first and later approximated the impact of irrigation cost separately with a sensitivity analysis. Given the partial nature of our cost estimates, the true FDPIs are likely lower. Our results suggest that irrigation-led intensification only has a limited impact on FPDIs in relation to the international poverty line. At low irrigation frequency, the rice-wheat system provided a median 0.36 PPP$ day−1, which is 18.9% of the poverty line. The median difference in FDPI between low and high irrigation frequency systems was 0.15 PPP$ day−1 for rice and 0.10 PPP$ day−1 for wheat. That is a 56% in­ crease in rice and 70% increase in wheat (see Fig. 3, p < 0.01). Well- irrigated rice-wheat systems only see median FDPIs of 0.61 PPP$ day−1. These increases in FDPI help to close the gap towards the poverty line but remain significantly below 1.90 PPP$ day−1. The estimated per ha profits for the 90th percentile – a common definition of attainable yields and profits – of the high-irrigation groups were 3363 PPP$ ha−1 for rice and 2397 PPP$ ha−1 for wheat. That is a combined 5760 PPP$ ha−1. For a median household, that is still a substantial step away from closing the gap to the poverty line for which profits of 9500 PPP$ ha−1 Fig. 2. Distributions of income shares and marketed shares of crops for rice- wheat farmers in the EGP. A. Urfels et al. Agricultural Systems 207 (2023) 103618 6 are required – and even more so for the 50% of farmers with lower IBI values. The partial dependency plots of the random forest model that control for other variables (Fig. 3) confirm that returns to increasing irrigation frequency in rice-wheat systems are positive but, on average, limited in magnitude. Besides, our per ha yield and profitability results compare well to similar results reported for the improvements of net output from irrigated vs. non-irrigated crop production systems across Asia (Hussain, 2007) – further suggesting that our estimates are in the right order of magnitude and that significantly higher profits are un­ likely to materialize. Lastly, the non-linear shape of the rice response to irrigation (see Fig. 3) cannot be directly explained in this study.