 On nutrition, POSHAN (Partnership and Opportunities to Strengthen and harmonize Action for Nutrition in India) examined the state of inter-sectoral convergence in the states of Odisha and Madhya Pradesh, and assessed its implications for scaling up nutrition interventions. The team estimated the costs of delivering nutrition-specific interventions at full scale and prepared a review of strategies to support multi-sectoral actions for nutrition in India. Recently, the team with partners launched ‘India Health Report 2015’. Under CRP (CGIAR Research Program) on ‘Agriculture for Nutrition and Health’ (A4NH), several studies were completed on pulses, which included production, consumption, trade, prices, processing and technologies. Other study under A4NH was on changing pattern on diet diversity and its implications on nutritional security across different income groups. Some choice experiments were also conducted to assess the impact of several interventions (namely, changing production portfolio, entrepreneurial development, preventive measures, self-help groups, behavioural towards nutrition) to design better programs for improving food and nutrition security. Under CRP on ‘Policies, Institutions and Markets’ (PIM), studies on smallholder agriculture and linkages with markets and service providers were initiated. Studies were related to contract farming, financing innovative value chains, energy and agriculture value chains, and role of rural business hubs for improving efficiency of service delivery were undertaken. Similarly, market linkages through supermarkets were studied to assess consumers’ choices for prices and food safety issues. As part of the capacity building programs, several activities were organized to enhance policy analysis capacity of researchers in ICAR institutes, and SAUs in area related to impact assessment, value chain analysis, priority setting, monitoring and evaluation, agricultural trade analysis, DERAM Model to assess impact. Some of the researchers visited IFPRI HQs in Washington DC to work with senior researchers in IFPRI under various programs. 2.iii. Socio-economic impact/outcome The IFPRI’s research had profound socio-economic impact. As mentioned earlier, its research on returns to public investment helped to launch the massive rural road programme, which helped millions to escape poverty. The persistent advocacy, backed by credible empirical evidences by IFPRI led to increased funding for agricultural research, which improved the farmers’ economic welfare and contributed to reduction in poverty, under- nutrition and malnutrition. The IFPRI’s research on nutrition has been instrumental to design the nutrition agenda of India. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 46 3. Projects/activities in progress in India IFPRI has been actively involved in research, capacity development and policy communication activities in India.