 Vegetable production is reaching new heights every passing year which, in turn, increases the need, potential and scope of processing and value addition. India is the second largest producer of vegetables after China. The major states with high vegetable production are West Bengal, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. According to the 3rd advance estimates, the production of vegetables is estimated at 204.84 million tonnes from about 10.35 million ha land at a productivity of around 19.7 t/ha (GoI, 2021-22). After production, produce undergoes a series of post-harvest operations, handling stages and storage before reaching to the consumers. Each operation and handling stage results in some losses. There are sizable losses of vegetables during harvesting, post-harvest operations, handling and storage due to spoilage. It has been reported that postharvest losses and waste amount to approximately ` 1 lakh crores (NAAS 2019), while internationally it is estimated at 750 billion US$ (FAOSTAT 2019). The major reasons for higher perishability in fresh horticultural crops are higher moisture content, soft texture, higher susceptibility to diseases and high metabolic rates. Despite these huge monetary losses, the loss of input resources and time, hard work and dedication of the farmer-grower and the nutritional wastage cannot be compensated for at a time when tens of millions of people worldwide are suffering from hunger, malnutrition and other chronic conditions like diabetes, hypertension, cardio- vascular diseases, allergies and diabetes, etc. Diverse group of vegetables provides immense opportunities for processing and production of diversified products. Thus, indeed we need to additionally focus on development of infrastructure facilities for vegetable storage, transportation and processing. Processing and value-addition The vegetables belonging to different families are each a powerhouse of different phyto-chemicals which help to maintain health and keep diseases at bay. Cucurbits like bottle gourd, bitter gourd, cucumber, sponge gourd, pointed gourd, ridge gourd, ivy gourd; solanaceous vegetables like tomato, brinjal, chilli; leguminous vegetables like Indian bean, French bean, broad bean, pea; leafy vegetables like spinach, amaranth, fenugreek, lettuce; cruciferous vegetables like cauliflower, cabbage, broccoli, radish; carrot and tree vegetables like moringa all are representative of different nutritional compounds in various ratios. These can be used to prepare a number of vegetable based processed products. Drying process effectively removes moisture from product. It leads to development of shelf stable products. Moreover, due to drastic volume reduction, the packaging, storage and Prospects Indian Horticulture 104 transportation costs are reduced. The selection of drying technique varies with raw material, availability of dryer, cost of operation, maintenance and operating easiness and final quality of dehydrated product.