 Very often, the ratio of sodium to potassium exceeds 10 in dicot halophytes, whereas, it is one or less than one in monocot halophytes. In dicot, sodium replaces the role of potassium in a plant cell. The soluble compounds include soluble carbohydrates, proline and polyols. Based on the different mechanisms of adaptation to salty condition, halophytes have been classified into 3 types, viz. (i) salt excluding, (ii) salt excreting and (iii) salt accumulating. Salt excluding: In these plants, the root system possesses an ultrafiltration mechanism and this characteristic leads to the establishment of such species as the dominant component of the mangrove vegetation. Example: Salicornia species, Avicennia species, etc. Salt excreting: These plants regulate internal salt levels through foliar glands. Example: Avicennia species, Urochondra setulosa, Cressa cretica, etc. Salt accumulating: These halophytes accumulate high concentrations of salt in their cells and tissues and overcome salt toxicity by developing succulence. Example: Suaeda species, Cressa cretica, etc. Major halophytes as palatable fodder The halophytes are the vegetation that grows and completes their life cycle at very high salinity levels. The common halophytes growing on the saline ecosystem are Urochondra setulosa, Aeluropus lagopoides, Sporobolus marginatus, Sporobolus helvolus, Suaeda nudiflora, S. fruiticosa, S. maritime, Cressa cretica, Avecinia, spp, Salvadora persica, Salvadora oleoides, Salicornia spp, Salsola spp and Cyperus bulbosus. Based on fodder production, nutritious quality and easiness in planting, the major palatable halophytes identified at Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Bhuj, Gujarat are Suaeda nudiflora, Cressa cretica (both dicots) and Aeluropus lagopoides and Sporobolus marginatus (monocots). These halophytes are naturally grazed by cattle, buffalo, sheep, goat and camel in Banni grassland of Kachchh region of Gujarat. On inquiry, the local people told that when buffalos feed on Suaeda nudiflora, fat content in milk increases considerably. The details of these palatable halophytes are given as: Suaeda nudiflora: This is dicot halophyte having crude protein content of about 14%. Locally it is known as Khari grass. Three species namely, S. nudiflora, S. fruticosa (both in dry and saline ecosystem) and S. maritime (in sea-shore) have been observed in Banni area of Gujarat. Their leaves are swollen and contain more water than the other parts. This species is grazed by camel, sheep, goat and buffalo. Na: K ratio in leaf ranges from 10–18 whereas in root it ranges from 3–5. This halophyte can be planted either through seed or root-slip by adopting row to row spacing of 60 cm. Dry fodder yield ranges from 3–5 t/ha. This halophyte was observed to be growing well in the salinity level even up to 80 electrical conductivity (EC) of soil. Cressa cretica: This is also a dicot halophyte having crude protein content from 12–14%.