 Sector-wise insights After separating the dataset based on the sectors, it is noted that the most queries are received from the agriculture sector, whereas, Horticulture is in second place, followed by Animal Husbandry and Fisheries. The complete list of sectors along with the number at queries. Crop-wise insights It is noted that farmers from all over India asked most questions regarding the crops of Paddy (Dhan), Wheat, Cotton (Kapas), Chilies Onion, Brinjal, Sugarcane (Noble Cane), Tomato, Bengal Gram (Gram/Chick/Pea/Kabuli/ Chana), and Groundnut (peanut/ mung phalli). (Study period January 2006 to July 2022). Category-wise insights The farmers from all over India are observed to have asked queries regarding the following the most: Cereals, Vegetables, Fruits, Oilseeds, and Pulses, Moreover, the table containing the categories along with the corresponding number at queries in the Year-wise insights From the dataset, it is observed that the order of years with the increasing number of queries can be given as 2022, 2013, 2021, 2014, 2020, 2018, 2015, 2017, 2016, and 2019 (Study period January 2006 to July 2022). Query type-wise insights The types of queries asked by the Indian farmers the most include Weather, Plant Protection, Government Schemes, Cultural Practices, Nutrient Management, Fertilizer Use, and Availability, Market Information, Varieties, Weed Management and Seeds. The complete Month-wise insights The order of months with the increasing number of query calls in the dataset is noted to be: May, February, November, April, December, January, March, June, October, August, July, and September. Therefore, it is observed that the highest number at query calls received is in the months of July, August, September, and October (Study period January 2006 to July 2022). Hours-wise insights From the collected data, it was observed that the peak hours before the afternoon is 9:00-11:00 am, and in the evening it is of hours along with the number of queries corresponding to them is given here (Study period March 2013 to ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 144 available on google play store to capture data from the field, which was used to be collected manually using paper-based schedules by the enumerators, to provide an end-to-end solution of estimating production for four major livestock commodities, viz. milk, meat, egg and wool. It is being widely used Pan India by Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Government of India. The significant output of the study is that the ISS scheme under which voluminous data was being collected for entire India has now resulted into a paradigm shift from paper based survey to digital platform, which is fully functional across the country and huge volume of unit level data for all major livestock commodities and animals is now available on e-LISS portal through e-LISS app ensuring quality data.