 In the Western Himalayan region, conservation agriculture and terrace farming are often used to maintain soil moisture and prevent erosion, with integrated farming systems providing food security through stable yields (Bisht et al., 2016; Arulmanikandan et al., 2024; Shanmugam et al., 2024). In the eastern Himalayan region, there is a shift from jhum cultivation to sustainable alternatives such as paddy-fish farming and organic practices such as the use of compost and green manure to pro- mote soil health and resource efficiency (Rai, 2005; Das and Das, 2020; Samaddar et al., 2024). In the Gangetic Plains, farmers are using advanced cultivation techniques and flood/drought-resistant rice vari- eties to optimize water use and increase yields in the rice-wheat with intercropping system (Alagh, 1990; Hobbs and Gupta, 2003; Dar et al., 2020b). In the Central Plateau and Hill region, water management through harvesting techniques and efficient irrigation supports resil- ience, while mixed cropping and crop rotation improve soil health (Rastogi et al., 2024). The Western Dry region focuses on drought-resistant crops such as sorghum and millet, complemented by aquifer recharge projects such as drip irrigation and mulching (Singh, 2010; Bandyopadhyay et al., 2021). In the coastal plains and islands, salt-tolerant varieties such as rice and wheat are used, along with inte- grated farming systems that include crop rotation and intercropping to manage soil salinity (Mahata et al., 2010; Tarolli et al., 2024). In the Deccan Plateau, rainwater harvesting and drought-tolerant crops such as cowpea and pigeonpea are being used, with intercropping and agro- forestry practices such as the use of nitrogen-fixing legumes and fruit trees improving resilience and income diversification (Nwaogu and Cherubin, 2024). 13. Conclusions This study analyzed CRA as a strategy for ensuring food security in India, highlighting the country’s sustainability opportunities and chal- lenges. Effectively addressing the impacts of climate change on agri- cultural economies requires thorough research into CRA practices over various climate-resilient regions. This review showed that CRA research has gained notable recognition over the past decade, with a consistent rise in publications focused on sustainable agriculture. However, in India, there is a pressing need for greater adoption. As discussed, farmers and policymakers in India must be more familiar with the negative impact of climate change on agriculture and CRS rules. Developing scientific metrics to quantify sustainability and resilience will enable them to make informed decisions. Despite numerous studies, a comprehensive measurement set that accurately reflects the impact of climate change on agriculture remains elusive, and CRA strategies need to be considered in different terms.