 Horses infected by EIA virus, either die in the acute attack or during subsequent relapses or become inapparent carriers. These carrier horses maintain the virus in the form of persistent viraemia and become source of infection to other horses. Under stress of breeding, work, or immunosuppression, the disease may get precipitated in chronically infected equines. EIA leads to heavy economic losses to equine owners and the industry, particularly when costly animals of elite group e.g. horse from Turf/Race clubs or Thoroughbred horses get infected. In addition to the direct losses by deaths/elimination, indirect losses are also faced due to restricted movement of in-contact animals. EIA was detected in Karnataka, India, in February 1987. The disease was suspected on the basis of history and clinical symptoms and confirmed by Coggins’ test. This led to the initiation of a surveillance and monitoring programme by the NRCE, Hisar, on EIA. As a result of regular monitoring, the initial cases observed in Karnataka, followed by number of cases detected in Maharashtra, Karnataka, West Bengal, Haryana, Delhi and Punjab, were restricted in a record time. These cases were a part of an outbreak of the disease in India. By and large, EIA has been confined mainly to Thoroughbred population. Under the surveillance programme in the decade after 1987 more than 53,000 samples from horses, mules and donkeys were screened. The surveillance, monitoring and quails was developed. Problems of drop in egg production and production of increased level of thin shelled eggs were successfully solved by using this vaccine. Turkeys were protected against turkey-pox infection with the use of fowl-pox vaccine. The egg production and survivability of turkeys improved in comparison to previous years. There was no incidence of coccidiosis in layer and broiler flocks. The bio- security programme was beneficial in controlling disease in poultry flocks. Equine Testing of neonate foal sera before suckling colostrum revealed presence of moderate concentration of IgM type of antibodies, indicating the ability of equine foetus to synthesize IgM. However, the absorption of IgG, IgA, IgM and IgG (T) occurred within 24 hr after birth. An experimental batch of outer membrane protein vaccine against Salmonella Abrotus-equi infection gave protective level of immune responses in ponies. Therapeutic management of combined cyanocobalamine and anurine hydrochloride for hindquarter paresis in equines provided better ameliorative effect than the individual application of either of the drugs. Younger animals suffer more with renal colic, whereas, older animals mostly suffer with obstructive colic. The change in feed could possibly be incriminated as the predominant cause of colic in older animals. Management of urinary colic by catheterization followed by parental administration of pentazocine sodium and polyionic fluid was very useful.