 Agricultural research and development: There was general consensus that IFPRI’s findings regarding the beneficial impacts of agricultural research and development on growth and poverty alleviation have been part of the wider policy conversation, particularly in the run-up to the Eleventh Five-Year Plan (2007-2012). In fact IFPRI’s research was “central” to the Steering Committee on Agriculture and Allied Sectors group’s recommendation of increased investments in agricultural research institutions (India Planning Commission 2007). Impact evaluation of the national rural employment guarantee scheme in India: The study aims to thoroughly evaluate the impacts of India’s National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS), the largest public works project in the world. IFPRI’s research results already suggest that the program is well-targeted in Andhra Pradesh and, while short-term effects are greater in terms of participants’ nutritional intake, in the medium-term, researchers see an increased accumulation of nonfinancial assets. Both short- and medium- term benefits seem to accrue more to participants in the scheduled castes and tribes, as well as to those who would otherwise rely on casual labour. Studies were also undertaken to assess the role of MG-NREGA in changing demand for food commodities and its long-term impact on agricultural growth and poverty alleviation. Similarly, impact of prices and technologies on food grain supply helped in food management policy. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 43 2.ii. Contribution during last one year Through its extensive policy research, IFPRI has played significant roles at various policy platforms in the last one year. Some of the key highlights are: The Chief Economic Advisor to the Government of India prepared a new strategy report titled “Incentivising Pulses Production through Minimum Support Price (MSP) and Related Policies” in September 2016 that laid out policy recommendations emerging from IFPRI’s research on pulses. This report acknowledges contributions by IFPRI research team. The report was aimed to incentivise pulse production in the country through price support and other related policies. It led to i) increase in minimum support price (MSP) for pulses; ii) beginning of procurement of pulses at MSP and iii) creation of a buffer stock of pulses to ensure stable prices. These policies will secure assured prices for their pulse productions and make pulses more affordable to consumers. Producers and consumers across India will benefit from this outcome. During the International Year of Pulses-2016, we undertook several studies on increasing production of pulses and organized several events. A new methodology was developed to compute MSP for pulses by incorporating risk in pulses and their contribution in eco-system services. One book on ‘Pulses for Nutrition Security: From Farm to Fork’ has been approved by the IFPRI’ Publication Review Committee.