 Process technology for palada payasam mix preparation by dry crystallization method in a mechanical unit. POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 96 Camel milk products In order to promote use of camel milk, different consumer friendly value added products were prepared. The protocol for production of good quality paneer from blends of camel and goat milk was standardized. Meat Detection and quantification of tissues in meat products: Unique, common and differentially expressed miRNAs were identified to develop tissue specific diagnostic assays. A complete panel of 22 miRNAs was selected for downstream applications and were classified as Reference miRNAs and Rank I, Rank II and Rank III based on the suitability for using in meat (skeletal muscle) and organ (liver, heart, gizzard) mixtures. All Rank 1 primers along with reference miRNAs were validated for differential expressions using RT-qPCR. Promising results in terms of miRNA tissue specificity were observed from the experiment to develop tissue specific diagnostic platform that detect the presence of organ meat/tissue in skeletal meat. Further, validation of miRNA platform in commercial meat products is in progress. Bioactive peptides: Use ginger as a natural source of protease in comparison with other commercially available enzymes to extract and characterize antioxidant and antihypertensive hydrolysates from water buffalo liver, a protein rich offal was attempted. Hydrolysis of sarcoplsmic protein extracts from buffalo liver using proteinase-K, pronase-E and ginger protease significantly increased the % degree of hydrolysis and generated low- molecular weight peptides. Enzyme treated hydrolysates exhibited significantly higher DPPH radical scavenging activity and ACE inhibitory activity. Mass spectrometric analysis (MALDI-TOF MS) of selected gel-filtered fractions identified the proteins that possess strong antioxidant activity. Meat products in retort processing: Standardized the retort processed goat meat curry, goat milk paneer curry, goat meat biryani and goat meat nugget,which can be kept on room temperature in retort pouch packaging for one year without affecting much nutritive quality at room temperature. Poultry Chicken seekh kebabs: For standardization of processing techniques in development of chicken seekh kebabs—a formulation was developed, processing conditions (particle size, mixing time and cooking time-temperature) were optimized, and selected natural preservatives for shelf-life enhancement were added. Added fat level of 8%, meat particle size of 4 mm, mixing time of 8 min and cooking time-temperature of 170ºC for 10 min were best for processing of good quality seekh kebabs with desirable physicochemical quality and better sensory acceptability. Use of curcumin, eugenol and vitamin E @ 0.025, 0.02 and 0.04% levels was found most suitable. The product has shelf-life up to 20 days at 4±1ºC.