 The wood possesses diaphoretic, diuretic and carminative properties, and is useful in fever, and in pulmonary and urinary disorders. It is also used as a remedy for ulcers and eruptions, for mange in horses and buffaloes and sore feet in cattle. A large evergreen tree, often reaching 60 m in height and 10 m in girth, found throughout the western Himalayas from Afghanistan to Garhwal at elevations ranging from Habit Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES 1,200 m to 3,000 m above the sea level, being most common from 1,800 m to 2,600 m. Deodar is also grown as an ornamental tree in the hill stations and does well where the soil is light. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1379 Control of leaf-eating insects in cabbage and cauliflower through neem leaves Volume 2, page 153 Neem Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English names Botanical names 1383 Protection of field crops by planting trees of arjun, karanj etc. Volume 2, page 154 Ashan, palash, neem, karanj, arjun, bhelwa, jamun parasi Palash: Bengali, Malayalam and Marathi: palas; Gujarati: khakharo; Hindi: dhak, palas; Kannada: muttuga; Dogri: dhak; Oriya: porasu; Punjabi: chichra, dhak, palas; Sanskrit: palasa; Tamil: parasa, pilasu; Telugu: mooduga, palasamu. Arjun: Assamese: orjun; Bengali: arjhan; Gujarati: sadado; Hindi: arjuna; Kannada: maddi; Marathi: sanmadat, sadaru, vellamarda; Oriya: arjuno, sahajo; Punjabi: arjan; Tamil: vellamatta; Telugu: yerramaddi. Jamun: Bengali: jam, kalajam; Gujarati: jambu, jamli; Hindi: jaman, jam; Kannada: nerale; Malayalam: naval, perinnaral; Marathi: jaman, jambul; Oriya: jamo; Punjabi: jammu; Tamil: neredam, naval, sambal; Telugu: neereedu. Palash: bastard teak, Bengal kino tree, flame of the forest Jamun: jaman, jambolan, black plum, Java plum Palash:Butea monosperma (Lam.) Taub. and Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Arjun: Terminalia arjuna (Roxb.) Wight & Arn. Jamun: Syzygium cuminii (Linn.) Skeels. Active ingredients : Palash: The bark is reported to possess astringent, bitter, pungent, alterative, aphrodisiac and anthelmintic properties. It is useful in tumours, bleeding piles and ulcers. The decoction is prescribed in cold, cough, fever, various forms of haemorrhages, in menstrual disorders and in the preparation of tonics and elixirs. The roots are useful in elephantiasis, and in curing night blindness and other defects of sight. The green leaves are commonly lopped for fodder; the yield of milk in buffaloes is reported to improve when they are fed Butea leaves. The leaves are also reported to contain alkaloids. They are credited with astringent, tonic, diuretic and aphrodisiac properties. They are also used to cure boils, pimples and tumorous haemorrhoids and are internally given in flatulent colic, worms and piles. The shoot apex is used by the kani tribal women of Kerala to prevent conception.