 It also consists a micro irrigation system, irrigation pump and electric solenoid valve in farmland fields using WSN, supported by communication technologies such as ZigBee, GPRS and Internet. System architecture diagram is given in Fig.1 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report e The cost of implementing Al and loT systems can be prohibitive for smallholder farmers with limited financial resources. Finding cost-effective solutions and exploring financing options, such as subsidies or grants, can help make these technologies more accessible. e Ensuring the proper functioning of loT sensors and Al systems requires regular maintenance and technical support. Building local capacity for troubleshooting and repairs, as well as establishing service agreements with suppliers can help minimize downtime and maximize system reliability. Part B 3. Architectural considerations a. Data management NOTE - Topics that could be addressed here include data acquisition, transmission, processing, output, and governance (including ownership, security, privacy, etc.). - To be refined (inspiration can also be taken from the relevant details of the ITU-T FG-DPM template presented). b. System architecture The system's central hypothesis is to apply the right amount of water at the right time to fulfill the water requirement of the crop. For achieving this condition, the intelligent irrigation system consist of a soil moisture sensors and temperature sensor installed at the effective root zone of a specific crop in undisturbed soil. It also consists a micro irrigation system, irrigation pump and electric solenoid valve in farmland fields using WSN, supported by communication technologies such as ZigBee, GPRS and Internet. System architecture diagram is given in Fig.1 TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 120 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 121 Definition and description of sub systems (Including AI and IOT subsystems) given in Fig. 2 Figure 1: System Architecture Fig. 2: Field layout and components of IoT based drip irrigation system The IoT devices were tested to determine whether it could use sensors to collect environmental data and transfer them to an IoT platform. A local Wi-Fi network was connected to the data-gathering device for testing purposes. The ThingSpeak IoT platform was used to view the field data collected by the sensors. For numerous data entries, the Cloud platform Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Definition and description of sub systems (Including Al and IOT subsystems) given in Fig. 2 (MQTT Server) | Cloud platform NodeMCU T (MQTT Client) moisture sensor Y i V9 moisture sensor Soil moisture sensors with smart loT interface Electric solenoid valve loT hasad dip imgation system Field testing of the developed system Fig.