 IIM-A CIIE, ICAR NAARM: aIDEA, Villgro and AIP- ICRISAT have done a creditable job in building the much-needed initial incubation support (mentoring as well as seed capital) in this sector. ICAR had taken the stewardship of promulgation of IP and technology commercialization process, by institutionalization of the policy through development of operational guidelines and establishment of a governance mechanism in a three tier mode across all the institutes of ICAR. Further, support is being provided for technology incubation activity and nurturing the techno-entrepreneurs in Agri-business Incubation (ABI) Centers established in 24 ICAR institutes, keeping in view the spectrum of technologies, available Case 1: Tazaa Agro: Ensuring fresh fruit and vegetable on your plate Bikram Mehra, Managing Partner of Tazaa Agro after completion of his management studies joined in National Centre for Cold-chain Development, Autonomous body of Ministry of Agriculture & Farmer Welfare, Government. of India. After seeing the issues in post harvest losses, especially those of farmers he thought to do something and came up with the idea of Tazaa Agro. Post harvest quality and quantity loss is a very established fact in Indian Agri scenario. Normally 30-40% loss has been estimated in perishables like fruits and vegetables (F&V). Preventing the loss to cope up with increasing demand for these commodities would increase F&V farmers income contributing to the national goal of doubling the farmers income and preventing the national loss to the tune of 30% of GDP. The F&V loss can be reduced significantly by using TAZAA AGRO Bio-degradable emulsion one can 1) extend the shelf life of fruits and vegetables for about 3 times in ambient temperature while preserving the quality (Table 1); and 2) Blocks the pores of F&V partially which slow down the metabolic activities of fruits and vegetables to reduces the physiological weight loss and loss of moisture. Features of TAAZA AGRO are: 1) It keeps intact the Appearance/Texture and brings shine to F&V which reduces the expenditure of edible wax.; 2) Maintain crispness, chewiness and aroma (Taste) in F&V for long period of time and preserves the original quality of juice content and flavour; 3) It can effectively resists the contaminants of micro-organisms (bacteria, fungi, viruses) when used with a combination of Ozone technology; 4) Treated F&V can be consumed directly without water wash (Easy Operation); 5) Tazaa Agro keeps F&V hydrated and prevents from drying; 5) Low cost technology and can be used by small land holder farmers, traders, retailers or cooperatives to extend the shelf life of fruit and vegetable at ambient temperature; 6) Tazaa Agro is mobile in nature and capable of being transported from one place to another. Table 1.