 Dragon fruit also contains many vitamins and minerals, that are important for a healthy body. Shri Pavankumar Basappa Rangatti, 21 years of age, is a young graduate hailing from Ratnapur village, Tikota Taluk, Vijayapur district of Karnataka. Being the only son, he did not want to leave his parents alone. After his graduation, he was in dilemma regarding profession to be taken up. Browsing through the newspapers, he read about the trainings being conducted by Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Vijayapura-I on organic farming, especially meant for individuals aged below 35 years; and he attended one such training. Subsequently, he adopted dragon fruit cultivation in his dry land area, under the technical guidance of KVK, Vijayapura-I. Earlier his father was growing grape, which was a costly affair. Looking into the expenses on cultivation of grapes, his father too supported him in his new venture. He brought 4,000 saplings of both white and red varieties of dragon fruit from Maharashtra, and took the risk of planting them in his 2 acres of land. He harvested the fruits after one and half years. He sells the fruits at the rate of 150-180 per kg and sapling at the rate of 20 per sapling. In 18 months only, he earned 1.25 lakh by spending 3.00 lakh. Gradually, his profit increased to 3.80 lakh in second year, 6.00 lakh in third and 8.00 lakh in fourth year by selling the fruits. From the sale of saplings, he has earned 3.00 lakh. Thus, as on today, he has earned a net profit of 11.00 lakh, and is very much confident of earning higher profits in future too. Looking into the profits/benefits and realizing the importance of dragon fruit, farmers of different taluks and districts from surrounding areas like Muddebihal, Torvi, Atalatti, Nidgundi, Dhavalgi, Hoskote, Kadur have purchased seedlings from him and started dragon fruit farming in their respective fields. A view of dragon fruit orchard and sapling unit of Shri Pavankumar Basappa Rangatti A view of nursery unit of Shri M. Sankara Rao with mini-shade net CASE STUDY Profitable Nursery through “Mini-Shade Net” CASE STUDY Cultivation of Dragon Fruit in Dryland Area Technology Assessment, Demonstration and Capacity Development icar annual report 2022-23 194 has been laid largely on forging convergence with ongoing government schemes in the respective district for saturating more number of villages with promising climate smart technologies. Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav: An innovative initiative Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav aimed to promote the direct interface of scientists with the farmers to hasten the lab to land process. The objective of this scheme is to provide farmers with required information, knowledge and advisories on regular basis by adopting villages particularly small and marginal farmers. During interaction with scientists farmers put forth their issues apropos technological availability, loans, market price, extension programmes and support provided by different agencies, etc.