 The technology has been given to M/s K.S.N.M. Marketing, Coimbatore and so far about 1,50,000 traps have been sold at a cost of Rs 45/‐ per unit. • Preservation of milky mushroom Process parameters for preserving milky mushrooms up to 18 months by canning in brine (3%) and in tomato pulp (4o Brix) were standardized by Coimbatore centre. The technology has been transferred to M/s Blue Hills Agrotech, Coimbatore who have submitted canned samples for quality clearance to export the product to Japan. • PKV mini dhal mill (modified) Versatility of PKV dhal mill from Akola Centre has been enhanced for polishing mold‐affected sorghum and for cleaning wheat. The PKV dhal mill has been commercialized by transferring the design to 3 manufacturers. www.icar.org.in 15 2002 ‐ 2007 During the 10th Plan period a total of 152 units were sold (2 hp size :117 no., 3 hp size : 33 no. and 5 hp size : 2 no. for Rs 37000, Rs 63000 and Rs 65000, respectively0. About 32 units of PKV dhal mills are also being used for sorghum demoulding and wheat cleaning. • Low‐cost safe storage of pulses A two‐stage pulse grain storage technology has been developed by Bangalore centre. This low cost method involves extended sun drying of freshly threshed pulse grains for 3‐5 days and application of about 1” thick layer of coarsely sieved sand which are quite effective to remove the field infestation and cross‐infestation of pulse beetles respectively. The technology has been approved by the University and State Department of Agriculture, Govt. of Karnataka and included in the package of practices for Agricultural Crops, brought out jointly by the University and State Dept of Ag. The technology is under large‐scale demonstrations in Karnataka by the Bangalore centre in close collaboration with KVKs and State Dept of Ag, and UAS, Dharwad. • Fruit and vegetable washing machine A stainless steel portable mechanical washing machine (power 1 hp, cost Rs 25000‐50,000 for 100‐600 kg/h capacity) has been developed and commercialized by PAU Ludhiana centre, suitable for a wide range of fruits and vegetables (carrot, potato, radish, turnip, ginger, okra, tomato, spinach, kinnow and pears). This machine could also be successfully used for breaking garlic bulbs and peeling potatoes. Technology commercialized to M/s Paradise Engg. Corp., Ludhiana and 10 pieces have been sold by the manufacturer • Manually operated ice crusher A pedal operated ice crusher (cost Rs 15,000 and capacity 500‐600 kg/h) has been developed by Raichur Centre to facilitate providing crushed ice for preservation of fish on board or at the landing centre. 3.2 VALUE ADDITION • Arecanut Dehusker It is a manually operated unit (capacity 160 kg per 8h, cost Rs 3000/‐) and requires four persons for dehusking freshly harvested mature green areca nuts simultaneously. The technology was developed by Bangalore Centre and have been commercialized. About 44 units are already in use in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Orissa.