 For this study, the Probit model was selected due to its advantages, such as higher sensi­ tivity to outliers and the ability to maintain predicted probabilities within the 0 to 1 range. These characteristics make it effective for esti­ mating the likelihood of items belonging to different categories based on specific characteristics, unlike linear or Logit models, which primarily focus on odds ratios. The benefits of Probit regression have led to its widespread adoption in studies on water conservation practices and technologies (Ngcobo et al., 2023; Apio et al., 2023; Tolassa and Jara, 2022). However, it is essential to note that Probit models may not al­ ways be superior to Logit models, as the choice depends on the study’s objectives and data nature (Degfe et al., 2023; Zhang et al., 2019; Jha et al., 2019). One limitation of the Probit model is its requirement for normal distributions for all unobserved components, which can be a drawback in cases where other distributions like lognormal would be more appropriate but cannot be accommodated within the Probit framework (Train, 2009). For this study, a probit model was employed. The mathematical expression for a probit model is typically represented as: Pr ( yi = 1 / xj = Φ ( β0 + β1x1 + … + βjxj ) (1) The Probit model estimates the probability P ( yi = 1/xj ) , where yi represents the dependent variable being 1 given the independent vari­ able xj. Here, Φ is the cumulative distribution function of the standard normal distribution, and β represents the coefficients of each selected factor. The estimation process of the Probit model entails maximizing the likelihood function, which is calculated using observed data. The study modifies the basic probit model expressed in Eq. (1) as follows Yi = βo + ∑ η=20 i=1 βiXi + ϵ (2) Where Yi is the micro irrigation technology adoption (1 if adopted and 0 otherwise); βo is the intercept; βi is the vector of the parameter estimates; Xi is a vector of the explanatory variables, each providing unique insights chosen as possible factors of the adoption of MI tech­ nologies. These variables include the age of the head of the household X1, the level of education X2, the gender of the respondent X3, the caste of the respondent X4, the principal employment activities for the household X5, the annual income of farmers X6, the purpose of loan taken X7, the total cultivated area in hectares X8, the area under plan­ tation/orchards X9, the types of water sources X10, Kisan credit card X11, beneficiaries of social schemes from the government X12, involvement in membership activities such as SHG X13, agriculture, milk, or other co- operative groups X14, access to electricity power in hours per day X15, households owning equipment for agriculture such as electric pumps X16, diesel pumps X17, bullock cart X18, tractor/tiller X19, and semi-arid states X20; η is the number of explanatory variables and ϵ is the random disturbance term.