 New breeding strategies 4.1.1. Genome editing Precise genome editing has great significance in crop improvement programs. Different crops have been benefitted by genome editing through the use of engineered nucleases viz., Zinc Finger Nucleases (ZFNs) mega-nucleases, Transcription activator-like effector nuclease (TALENs), and recently introduced Clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats-CRISPR-associated system (CRISPR-Cas), etc. The rapid technological breakthroughs and examples of successful exploration for crop improvement have provided a great, novel, and valuable platform for biotechnologists, geneticists, and plant breeders to work in a team for greater gains in creating novel variability in traits of interest and eventually assisting in enhanced and sustainable crop production. The emphasis is being given to incorporate genome editing in crop improvement programmes. Recent advances in the development of a genome editing technique using CRISPR/Cas9 are providing hope for developing and cultivating new varieties of agricultural crops. The Government of India in its recent notification in 2022 provided the exemption to genome edited plants falling in the categories of SDN 1 and SDN 2, which are free of exogenous introduced DNA. This arrangement will accelerate the development of varieties using genome editing technologies. 4.1.2. Genomic selection With the substantial reduction in cost and high throughput techniques based on single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) enabled genotyping a large number of plants in a short time and has created the unique opportunity to harness the tools of genomics for enhancing the genetic gains at whole genome levels. Instead of following the traditional estimation of breeding value from phenotypes, the calculation of genomic estimated breeding value (GEBV) helps to select the best lines at different stages of the breeding programme. Genomic selection may be considered as an advanced form of MAS with high reproducibility and in this case simulation strategy is followed to predict the expected phenotype of progeny based on its genotype (Spindel et al. 2018). In our country, genomics-assisted breeding is yet to be started extensively. Few recent initiatives such as excellence in breeding (EiB) Indian Agriculture after Independence 108 platform of a consultative group of international agricultural research (CGIAR) and Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) led consortium through financial support from Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF). The consortium is aiming for the ‘application of next-generation breeding, genotyping, and digitalization approaches for improving the genetic gain in Indian staple crops. However, the initiatives are still in the infant stage. 4.1.3. Accelerating the genetic gain through speed breeding Food, fodder and fibre production needs to increase in the future in order to meet the demand of the increasing human population.