 Agriculture play a crucial role in the state economy and about 80% of the state population is engaged in agriculture and allied activities. Majority of the farmers are small and marginal with limited resources adopting subsistence farming system. Permanent cultivation is practised in valley area while terrace and shifting cultivation is being adopted in the hill areas. Due to traditional farming, the productivity of crop in the state is low and is not able to meet the domestic requirement. Less income from crop production leads to poor socio-economic condition and poor adoption of improved technologies by the farmers. The state faces problem of lack of availability of improved seed and planting material, irrigation facilities, cold storage, rural godown, credit facilities, etc. The climatic vulgarities experienced in the state over the last decades in term of dry spell during sowing season, rain during crop harvesting season, flood, etc has pose additional hardship and challenges to the farmers in the state. Marketing problems in the state in term of price volatility, exploitation by middleman and farmers not getting remunerative prices are other challenges which affect the income and earning of the farmers. The pathway for doubling of farmer’s income require consideration from different dimensions in term of providing improved packages of practices for production, timely availability of critical agri inputs, assured irrigation, improved marketing facilities, etc. There is a need for transformation of traditional crop to Cash crops, subsistence farming to commercial Market driven farming, food production to Food production with Processing, mushroom production and processing, adoption of protected cultivation, etc. Rearing of livestock especially pig and poultry have a big role to play in doubling farmer income as high return is obtained in a short period as compared to other farm activities taken up by the farmers in the state. Fishery sector has a huge potential in the state especially in the valley area where there is abundant marshy areas and lakes for fish farming. There is a huge gap in the production and requirement of the fishery and livestock products in the state. There is a need for location specific farm 358 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 mechanization to doubling the resource use efficiency and promotion of Agri entrepreneurs is required. Integrated Farming System (IFS) model based on the concept of undertaking multiple enterprises in the farm for optimum resource utilization and round the year employment and income generation is very much important for the state. The agricultural production system in the state is mostly rainfed, mono cropped and at subsistence level.