 However, extended dry periods will result in poor fruit set and/ or poor fruit development and size. The seeds are sown in dry soil and light irrigation is advocated. The life saving irrigation is advocated on 3rd day of sowing and subsequent irrigation is done at 7 days interval during summer or depending on prevailing agro- climatic conditions for other season. Flowering to fruit development is the sensitive phase of the crop growth, ensuring sufficient moisture in the soil is essential as the proportion of male blossoms usually increases when plants are under stress. Weed management Clean cultivation is highly advisable as the bottle gourd likes to grow vigorously. Hence, controlling weeds through frequent, shallow cultivation or 3-4 hand-weeding and hoeing is usually advocated during crop growth. Pre- emergence herbicide Pendimethalin 2.0 l/ha is advocated to control weeds before sowing or planting of seedlings in the main field. Harvesting and yield It attains harvestable stage at 52-63 days after sowing for green fruits and 120-140 days for ripe fruits for seed extraction. The fruits picked every 3-4 days interval. Its fruit has good shelf life with less weight loss, firmness and colour retention up to 3-5 days during summer and 10-12 days of storage during winter under room temperature. It gives 12.9 kg fruits by producing 16-20 fruits per plant and weighing about 700-800 g each with yield potential of 43.0 t/ha. Field view of Thar Avani with checks at developing stage First female flower emergence at 7th node and flowering pattern of Thar Avani Fertilizer management Organic manure is beneficial for better growth and fruit development. Hence, soil is applied with 15-20 tonnes of FYM by spreading method at the time of Thar Avani at farmer’s field on pandal system May–June 2023 5 Plant protection Bottle gourds are infested with many pests and diseases. The main pest of bottle gourd is fruit fly, the adult flies make a sting on young immature fruit and lays the eggs. White coloured maggots start developing inside the fruit. Hence, placing bait to attract the adult flies is advisable to control them. Powdery mildew is the serious diseases affecting rainy season crop, while this variety is Tender fruit ready to harvest Field view of mature fruits of Thar Avani for seed very less affected (5-10%) under semi arid condition of western India. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Lalu Prasad Yadav (Scientist), ICAR-Central Horticultural Experiment Station (CIAH-RS), Godhra, Panchmahals, Gujarat. *Corresponding author email: Lalu.Yadav@icar.gov.in Multi-Layer Farming Systems (Multiple Cropping) Shri Akash Chaurasiya belongs to a marginal farmer’s family in Tilli village of Sagar District of Madhya Pradesh. After being trained at KVK, Sagar, he adopted multilayer farming system with organic farming, in which he grows at least four to five crops in the same field, like ginger, ivy gourd, leafy vegetable, papaya and potato at the same time.