 Gypsum application and summer deep ploughing: Apply gypsum in the fields as per soil testing report to maintain the soil pH at optimum level, this will help in increased availability of different plant nutrients especially Ca & S, as gypsum is the cheapest source of these two secondary nutrients for plants. This increased availability of all plant nutrients will help in higher production and quality improvement in kharif crops especially in oilseed & Pulses. Follow summer deep ploughing after application of Gypsum in the field, this will help in mixing of gypsum in the soil, plough down of crop residues, weeds, and unwanted plants in the soil. In Rajasthan state there is huge variation in day and night temperature, which helps in improving physical, chemical, and biological properties of the soil and ultimately will improve soil fertility and finally crop productivity. Summer deep ploughing helps in control of harmful insects, their eggs, larvae, and pupae as well as soil borne disease pathogens up to a certain extent. Sowing of green manure crop Dhaincha: Dhaincha green manuring is a low-cost practice to improve the soil fertility in a short period of time. Due to limited availability of different organic manures, day by day farmers using excessive dose of chemical fertilizers which creates soil sickness, imbalanced ratio of primary fertilizers (N-P-K) and ultimately reduced soil fertility. By looking these situations, Dhaincha green manuring is the best option to sustain the soil fertility with low cost. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 32 Therefore, under assured irrigation facilities dhaincha green manure crop can be sown in April-May and in rainfed areas this can be grown with the onset of monsoon. Dhaincha crop must be plough down in the soil with the help of Rotavator implement at optimum stage (before flowering stage) with optimum moisture conditions. 60 kg seed /ha should be used for this purpose. Availability of quality Seed: Seed is the most important critical input in crop production, therefore, availability of quality hybrid/ improved variety certified seed at right time at local level and at genuine rate is the prime need of the time. For this farmer may contact and purchased quality seed from their nearby KVKs, Agricultural Research Stations, SAUs, different ICAR Institutes and cooperative societies. Sometimes farmers approach in a group after onset of monsoon and under such conditions availability of seed is a big issue, therefore farmers must purchase quality seed well in time from any above reliable source. If purchased seed is already treated than ok, otherwise it must be treated as per recommendation of FIR System before sowing. Š Š To increase the WUE in canal area, at this time land should be levelled with Laser Land Leveller.