 Identification of resistance sources is essential for crop productivity. Our multiomics analysis in Cajanus platycarpus, a wild species of pigeonpea, revealed involvement of flavonoid biosynthesis pathway for pod borer resistance in C. platycarpus. The transcripts in pod borer-challenged C. platycarpus showed dynamic upregulation (up to 11-fold) of pivotal pathway genes with a concomitant increase (up to 4-fold) in the respective metabolites. Further, H. armigera diet overlaid with the over-produced flavonoids (100 ppm) showed deleterious effects on growth leading to a prolonged larval period. Thus the study demonstrated that flavonoid biosynthesis pathway in the wild relative plays a significant role in conferring resistance against pod borer. An invert emulsion formulation, viz. IIPR Lep- KILL® EW from an indigenous B. thuringiensis strain for managing polyphagous lepidopteran pest like pod borer (Helicoverpa armigera) and Bihar hairy caterpillar (Spilosoma obliqua) has been developed by ICAR-IIPR, Kanpur. Dalhanderma, a talc based multi-trait formulation of Trichoderma asperallum (IIPRTh-31) developed by ICAR-IIPR, Kanpur, registered (Reg No. NAIMCC-R-5) with ICAR-NBAIM, Mau for the commercialization for wilt and root rot diseases management and plant growth promotion in major pulse crops. Application of Dalhanderma @ 10 g per kg of seed give significantly increased seed germination (8% to 18.90%), shoot length (12% Mechanism of diapause in spotted stem borer Cummulative % release ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 76 CROP MANAGEMENT Alien invasive insect pests threat to Indian Agriculture Alien invasive insect pests are of great concern to countries in terms of affecting food supplies, disturbing ecosystem functions, posing risk to human health to economic losses. India has witnessed accidental entry and establishment of not less than 37 agriculturally important alien insect pests so far. Recently, two invasive insect pests, apple leaf blotch miner, Leucoptera malifoliella, (Lyonetiidae: Lepidoptera) on apple in Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and mango soft scale, Fistulococcus pokfulamensis (Coccidae: Hemiptera) on mango, jamun and blueberry in and around Bengaluru have been detected. Both have firmly established and continue to spread further. AICRP on Biological Control Centre located at SKUAST, Srinagar and ICAR-NBAIR could molecularly (NCBI accession no. OR244421), confirm the presence of apple leaf blotch miner (ALBM), Leucoptera malifoliella (Costa) (Lyonetiidae: Lepidoptera) as a new invasive insect pest that threaten apple production in the Country. Severe defoliation of apple (20-50%) was observed in the apple orchards during the surveys taken up in Jammu and Kashmir UT. It is suspected that ALBM might have gained entry into India along with the imported rootstock / germplasm from European nations or from any of the neighbouring Asian countries.