org) 831 and modern approaches to farming which leaves the farmers and consumers stuck. Agriculture is the industry that provides food, which is the most basic human necessity. Agriculture was closely associated with civilizations all over the world, and international economies were predominantly agricultural during the post-industrialization period. Although traditional agriculture is still practiced in some regions of the world, modernization has changed the face of agriculture. Traditional agriculture relies on outdated information, outdated tools, and organic fertilizers, whereas contemporary agriculture relies on technologically improved tools and machinery. Traditional farming practices and expertise become outdated as globalization and modernization forces increase. Due to these pressures, the food system has shifted from one dependent on millions of farmers to one dominated by a few agribusinesses. Production, capital gain, input intensity, and crop consistency are all important aspects of modern agricultural methods. Traditional agricultural practices, on the other hand, place a premium on localization, biodiversity, shared genetic resources, and a cultural appreciation for a diverse range of crops. Changes in agriculture from traditional to contemporary will have a substantial impact on the biodiversity of cultivated and wild plants. Agriculture must stay resilient in the face of global environmental concerns to sustain and expand food security. Agricultural resilience requires cultural and biological diversity; if one method or crop fails, there are many others to compensate. If the urge to modernize is minimized and the number of conservation projects continues to rise, cultural variety can help to preserve biodiversity. The Indian civilization has always been agrarian. Right from the Vedic Saraswati civilization to the modern times, farmers have cultivated this rich land and cherished their bond with Mother Nature. It is no wonder then that India is a land of abundance and wisdom. Agriculture farming in India is a century-old activity, and is currently the highest contributor to the GDP of India. Agriculture remains the largest contributor to the country’s GDP and farmers constitute 58% of India’s population. It means much of India remains untouched by the mindlessness of consumerism. Under its Agriculture Export Policy, the Government of India aims to increase agricultural export by over $60 billion by 2022. This means, the agricultural activity in India will be doubling. If we describe the farmers of India, they constitute 58% of the country's population. Agriculture is the primary source of income for the mentioned percentage of the population. The Indian food industry also aims to grow by leaps and bounds. Already, the Indian food market stands as the 6th-largest globally with food processing covering over 32% of the country’s food industry.