 The registered users were 5,610 in the Indian Farming, whereas 3,710 in Indian Horticulture. A total of 180 articles were published in the Indian Farming and 76 in Indian Horticulture. Special issues of the Indian Farming were brought out on the theme Rich in Heritage, Full of Potential on the occasion of International Year of Millets 2023 and on the occasion of G20 Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists. Special issues of the Indian Horticulture, on themes such as Vegetable Crops (March-April 2023), Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (September- October 2023) and Horticulture in North-East Region Metrics for The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences Metrics for The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 204 (November-December 2023) were brought out. During the year, Digital Object Identifier (DOI) number allotment to articles for both the research journals was continued for benefit of the authors as well as journals immensely. To provide authentic knowledge to readers of the research journals plagiarism checker software iThenticate was subscribed. For facilitating publication of the books, e-book platform was developed. Under the books publication programme of the English Editorial Unit, seven new titles were published namely: Textbook of Watershed Hydrology, Textbook on Cheese Technology, Importance of Millets and Improved Production Technologies, Fundamentals of Soil Science, Fundamentals of Soil and Water Conservation Engineering, Textbook of Entomology and Textbook on Veterinary Extension. The in-house publication like ICAR Reporter and ICAR News are also available on ICAR website for wider global outreach. These were viewed in about 140 countries world over. Technical work (editing and proofreading) Author guidelines were developed for bringing out Research Journals; Popular magazines; and books. These guidelines are available online (Research journals and popular journals: https://epubs.icar.org.in and for books on https://ebook.icar.org.in/). These guidelines put ICAR in-house style at par with International Research Publications. Editorial Unit ensure that all international publishing reforms are adopted in ICAR. International nomenclature is followed in technical names using www.sp2000.org. International unit system is ensured in the ICAR content. Plagiarism is checked by plagiarism checking software. The system has adopted a Plagiarism Policy to keep ICAR brand intact. Revision of important textbooks, technical books, handbooks is initiated by Editorial units after feedback from Business Unit. Special issues of popular journals on topical issues are conceptualized, planned and finalized by editorial units. Editing and proofreading of all periodicals, and Annual Report is done in-house by the respective units. The aim is meeting the quality and the deadline.