 An Information, Education and Communication (IEC) mechanism was built to reach out to farmers and farmers groups. KVK experts organized 525 hands-on training programs for 16,000 farmers, tractor owners and machine operators on management of crop residue. KVKs organized 24000 demonstrations on operating happy seeder machine and sowing wheat in standing stubbles. More than 400 field days and harvest days, 375 exposure visits to residue-burning free sites, 120 kisan melas covering a total of 6 lakh farmers were organized. Hon’ble Prime Minister recognized the contribution of Sh. Gurbachan Singh, farmer from Punjab for his unique initiative against residue burning in “Mann Ki Baat” (Episode 49, 28 October 2018) programme. Kalar Majri village near Nabha, Patiala was also recognized as Zero Stubble Burning Village. Impact of the campaign against residue burning is seen in the drastic reduction of burning fire events by 31% in 2018-19 and 52% in 2019 as compared to 165 2016. Farmers hailing from the problem villages joined and led the campaign against residue burning, became champions of the cause and were recognized by the government. Resource conservation technologies which can be easily adopted by farmers is the need of the hour to boost crop productivity and income of farmers. Soybean cultivated on raised beds showed increased yield in on-farm trials. Additionally, this land configuration has multiple benefits i.e., reduces tillage operation, seed rate and crop lodging; increases nutrient availability, enables management of weed and pests effectively over conventional flat-bed planting. Also, the raised bed planting is less susceptible to climate variability (excess rainfall) due to improved drainage in furrows. Raised bed planting of soybean is considered more appropriate in Vertisols (heavy soils) under rainfed condition for in-situ moisture conservation and yield improvement. Krishi Vigyan Kendras in Madhya Pradesh conducted on farm trials and cluster front line demonstrations on raised bed cultivation of soybean using bed planters for in-situ moisture conservation to realize higher productivity in rainfed areas and for resilience to climate risks in association with State department of agriculture. KVKs successfully demonstrated realization of average yield of 19.24 q ha-1 i.e., 21% higher than conventional flat-bed planting method. 7.3. Climate Resilient Villages (CRVs) Over 80% of the operational land holdings are cultivated by small and marginal farmers owning <1 ha and 1-2 ha, respectively. Agriculture is a climate sensitive sector and is greatly influenced by climate change effect on distribution and quality of natural resources adversely affecting the livelihoods of millions of farmers. Building the adaptive capacity and coping ability of farmers is a priority in view of the increasing frequency of occurrence of extreme events such as drought, flood, cyclone, heat wave, cold wave and hailstorm.