 Various types of fruit plants like Rose apple (Syzygium jambos), Mango (Mangifera indica), Indian Sherbet Berry/Falsa(Grewia asiatica), Malta(Citrus sinensis) were planted by the staff members of ICAR-CIFRI. A series of lectures were organized and more than 210 participants attended the lectures through online and offline mode. In-Charge, Institute Technology Management Unit Extension & Training cell ICAR-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute Barrackpore, Kolkata 700 120 World Environment Day: ICAR-CMFRI conducts tree plantation drive and awareness programmes on plastic pollution 7 June 2023, Ernakulam. World Environment Day was observed by the ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute with a slew of initiatives at its various Regional Centres and Research Stations on 5 June 2023. 13 ICAR REPORTER April - June 2023 Visakhapatnam Regional Centre conducted a tree plantation drive at the Centre and Peda Jalaripeta fishing village, Visakhapatnam. In association with DHAN foundation, an awareness workshop-cum- plantation drive was also conducted along with the fisher folk of Peda Jalaripeta fishing village. Scientists of VRC of ICAR-CMFRI delivered awareness lectures on the marine environment, climate change and conservation of coastal biodiversity. Vizhinjam Regional centre of ICAR-CMFRI organised an awareness programme for the staff and scholars marked by a lecture delivered on the theme ‘Beat Plastic Pollution’ followed by the plant distribution drive. Mangalore Regional Centres conducted an awareness programme on plastic pollution focusing on the theme Beat Plastic Pollution. Veraval Research Station did a major plantation drive at newly acquired land at Inaz, Veraval on the eve of World Environment Day. Media Cell ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute Cochin 682 018 36th Convocation of UAS, Dharwad 23 June 2023, Dharwad. On the occasion of the 36th Convocation of University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad held on 12 June 2023, Dr Himanshu Pathak, as the Chief Guest (Secretary, Department of Agricul­ tural Research and Education, Government of India and Director General, ICAR, New Delhi), addressed that the development in the field of Agriculture is pivotal for India to become a developed country. Shri Thawarchand Gehlot, Governor of Karnataka State and Chancellor of the University, said that Agriculture Graduates should make agriculture self-reliant to make India a developed country where agriculture is the predominant occupation. Shri N Chaluvarayaswa­ my, Agriculture Minister of Government of Karnataka and Pro-Chancellor of Agricultural University, called upon scientists, teachers and students to develop more and more high-yielding varieties to enhance the income of farmers. Dr PL Patil Vice-Chancellor, presented a report on the activities of various wings of the university like teaching, research, extension, seed production, and students.