 In recent decades, agricultural diversification has increasingly been considered a solution to the severe problems affecting agriculture. Diversified agriculture is profitable; it generates additional employment for rural populations and conserves natural resources. Crop diversification, including different cereal and horticultural crops in the cropping sequence, can provide farmers with better income realization, profitability, resource-use efficiency, and productivity. A key objective is to attain growth in output, generate employment, and ensure natural resource sustainability within a region. Cereals continue to constitute a major portion of India’s food basket, as cereal production is essential for sustaining the livelihoods of the poor. However, the cereal-cereal cropping system has plateaued, and further returns are possible only through diversification. Therefore, a key step in the economic development of Indian farmers will be to diversify their cereal-based production systems by including vegetable crops in the cropping sequence. The inclusion of vegetables in major cropping systems will not only improve vegetable availability and contribute to food self-sufficiency but also provide opportunities to earn foreign exchange by exporting fresh vegetables and vegetable seeds. Moreover, these vegetable crops are suitable for cultivation on small pieces of land, and their inclusion in traditional cropping systems can enhance the nutritional potential of the system. Technical intervention One of the objectives of the project entitled 'Intervention of Improved Agricultural Technologies for Livelihood and Nutritional Security Adhering to Local Resources and Working Knowledge of the Farmers' under the Farmer FIRST Programme (FFP) at ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi, is to strengthen crop diversification through vegetables by supplying quality inputs for nutritional and livelihood security, and to empower farmers/farm women in different aspects of agricultural enterprises as a livelihood diversification option through skill development. To achieve this target, the interventions carried out in this project were target-specific, based on the needs of different categories of beneficiaries and aligned with available resources and working knowledge. Vegetable crops were used as major tools for enhancing the livelihood of small and marginal farmers. The rice-wheat system is the most popular and widely adopted cropping system in the Eastern Indo- Gangetic plains of Uttar Pradesh. However, in recent years, it has become evident that this system is not sustainable due to various factors. The dominant paddy- wheat cropping system has led to significant economic, social, and ecological issues, including a deceleration in productivity, overuse of groundwater resources, declining soil fertility, and increased environmental pollution.