 Some of the schemes that were launched following the Gandhian Principles of ‘Farmer is the Pivotal Person for a Society and the Country’ are: PM-KISAN (Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi) Scheme which promises to pay all poor farmers (small and marginal farmers having lands up to 2 hectares) a sum of Rs. 6,000 each every year in 3 installments through Direct Bank Transfer. It would reportedly benefit around 14.5 crore farmers all over India; Pradhan Mantri Kisan Pension Yojana which address the problems of farm sector distress and the government assures to provide small and marginal farmers in the age groups of 18 to 40 a minimum Rs. 3,000 per month fixed pension. If the beneficiary of the pension passes away, the spouse will be entitled to receive 50% of the original beneficiary’s pension amount; and National Scheme on Welfare of Fishermen provides financial assistance to fishermen for construction of house, community hall for recreation and common working place. It also aims to install tube-wells for drinking water and assistance during lean periods through saving cum relief component. The Farmer FIRST (Farm, Innovations, Resources, Science and Technology), a concept of ICAR, is developed keeping farmer in a centric role for research problem identification, prioritization and conduct of experiments and its management in farmers’ conditions. The focus Ethics in Agricultural Science: Gandhiji’s Principles 174 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR is on farmer’s Farm, Innovations, Resources, Science and Technology (FIRST). Launched in October, 2016 it provides a platform to farmers and scientists for creating linkages, capacity development, technology adaptation and application, on-site input management, feedback and institution building. It has benefitted about 45000 farmers so far. Thus, the Gandhian Philosophy of Farmer the Pivotal Person for Sustainable Society has been fully recognized by the Government of India and ICAR and highly beneficial schemes to support the farmers have been launched and implemented successfully. 2.2. Gandhiji on Agrarian Economy The agrarian systems can be classified into 3 categories based on their economies and the levels of operation: (i) subsistence agriculture; (ii) commercial agriculture and (iii) market agriculture. In a subsistence agriculture the farmers grow enough for themselves and their families with no marketable surpluses while in the commercial agricultural economy farmers produce enough crops for their uses and for local markets. In both cases the demand on the money for cultivation is minimum. In a market agriculture, on the other hand, the demand on money for cultivation is huge and the farmer is forced to borrow money from financial institutions and struck with huge debts. A small or marginal farmer can pay back his debts after realizing his harvests in the market.