 The losses due to the disease have significant impact on the livelihood particularly food and nutritional security. To date, there is no effective treatment for this disease. Therefore, there is a need to develop treatment measures which can be easily affordable for the farmers. ICAR-NBFGR under the All India Network Project on Fish Health has developed formulation which has been found to be quite effective in treatment of this disease. Keywords: Aphanomyces invadans, Epizootic Ulcerative Syndrome, Small-scale farmers, Treatment Indian Farming 70(11): 18–19; November 2020 E PIZOOTIC ulcerative syndrome (EUS) is a serious disease of freshwater and estuarine fish, and more than 160 fish species are known to be susceptible to this disease. It is the first disease which has spread internationally with major impacts, especially in the developing world. The disease has a complex infectious aetiology and it is clinically characterised by the presence of Aphanomyces invadans and necrotising ulcerative lesions leading to a pathognomonic granulomatous response. In early stages, the gross lesions are characterised by pinhead- sized red spots on the body surface including head and fins, caudal peduncle, dorsum or operculum with no noticeable haemorrhages or ulcers. In the intermediate stage, the lesions are represented by small (2-4 cm) dermal ulcers, with associated loss of scales and haemorrhages. In the advanced stage, lesions appear on other parts of body of the fishes and expand into large necrotic open ulcers; resulting eventually in death. Given the wide geographical area, and the diverse range of habitats in which EUS-affected fish occur, a particularly diverse mix of species of Saprolegnia and Achlya. This group of pathogens although look-like fungi but are not true fungi. Unlike fungi, oomycetes do not have chitin-based cell walls; instead their cell walls are composed of cellulosic compounds and glycan, and the nuclei within the filaments are diploid, rather than haploid as is the case in fungi. For this disease, secondary zoospores of A. invadans are considered as the infective stages that germinate upon attaching themselves to fish skin that has been damaged and subsequently leading to severe necrotising granulomatous lesions. Impact of the disease The most notable epidemiological characteristic of the disease is its vast host range which includes highest number of documented host aquatic animal species susceptible to clinical disease. As reported earlier, over 160 fish species are affected and they belong to 54 families under 16 orders. Such a wide host range has special relevance in the tropics and sub-tropics, where culture-based capture fishing is most common. It is important to mention that in one of microbiological agents have been recovered from affected fish.