 Keywords: chapati, bread, appetite, animal Farmers of village Sundyaba of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh give as supplement the mixture of ajan, ajwaine and black salt (each 200 g) to increase the animals appetite. Keywords: ajan, ajwaine, appetite About 50 g sesame (Sesamum indicum) seeds and 100 g brown sugar are taken and fed to the cattle. It makes delivery easy. Apart from this, 1 kg Okra {Abelmomoschus esculentus) is also fed to the cattle to make delivery process easy. Keywords: sesame, brown sugar, okra, delivery About 5 leaves of kokranda are crushed and mixed with Vi litre buttermilk. This dose is given twice a day to the animal by cattle owners of villages Nawada (Ban) and Bichuria of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: kokranda, buttermillc, dog bite People of village Bishesharpur of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh follow this treatment to cure dog bite in animals. In this treatment, 3 ml akawua milk is mixed with jaggery and fed to the suffering animals twice daily. Keywords: akawua milk, jaggery, dog bite Shri Md. Noor Ahmed, S/o Shri Md. Lai Mohamed, Bichuria, Balia, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Md. Noor Ahmed, S/o Shri Md. Lai Mohamed, Bichuria, Balia, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Ms C. Kanagambal, W/o Shri Chandrasekaran, P.O. Nettavelampatty, (via Kottaipalayam) TalukaThuraiyur, Thiruchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) 621 003 Shri Prem Ray, S/o Shri Sobhas Ray, Nawada (Ban), and Smt. Natho W/o Shri AH Hasan, Bichuria,), Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Devi Ram, S/o Shri Brij Lai, Bishesharpur, Joytijagir, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3458 Use of kuchala (Strichnos nux-vomica) for treatment of dog bite in animals 3459 Snake-bite treatment of cattle by use of Aerva lanata 3460 Cure of snake-bite with extract of kothambadi leaves 3461 Control of poultry ailments with bark of kavitha The people of village Sundyaba of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use this treatment to cure the dog bite in the animals. A paste is prepared from 250 g kuchala and given orally twice a day. The infection of dog bite is cured. Keywords: kuchala, dog bite Sirupeelaipoo (Aerva lanata) is used for snake-bite treatment in cattle. For this, about 200 g sirupeelaipoo is crushed and the juice is directly poured in to the eyes of the cattle. To ooze out blood, V-shaped cut is made in the ear tip. This brings relief to the cattle, after that it may be taken to doctor for treatment or animal gets cured if the treatment continues for 2 days. Keywords: sirupeelaipoo (Aerva lanata), snake-bite, cattle, V-shaped cut Patel community of village Mantal, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) drench the extract of tender leaves of kothambadi (Coriandrum sativum) to the animals when they suffer from snake-bite. About 400g green leaves, buds and tender stems of kothambadi are collected and ground to take out the extract.