 A total stock of 800 – 1000 number of juveniles are being maintained in the 3 culture facilities. Thermostable Peste des Petits Ruminants (PPR) vaccine using spontaneously assembling, biodegradable mesoporous silica nano- scaffolds: PPR, a morbilliviral disease of small ruminants leads to high economic losses. Existing PPR vaccines provide life-long immunity but require cold-chain maintenance from lab to field. To exploit the adjuvant potential of mesoporous silica nanoparticles (MSN) to thermostabilizing PPR vaccine virus (PPRV), four types of MSN were synthesized and characterized. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) imaging of these nanoparticles on a model substrate demonstrated random particle assembly forming a dense scaffold with inter-particle spaces. The nanoparticles were FITC labelled and analysed by fluorescent microscopy and flow cytometry. Confocal microscopy studies demonstrated the uptake of FITC-labelled particles in Vero cells. Different concentrations of nanoparticles were tested for in vitro cytotoxicity in Vero cells. The ability of MSN particles for recruiting host cells was studied in laboratory animals. MSNs were evaluated for binding of PPRV and release kinetics was studied. The in vitro release of PPRV from MSN was confirmed in Vero cells by visualization of cytopathic effects (CPE) and immuno fluorescence assay using PPRV-specific antibodies. Immunization with antigen-loaded MSN particles demonstrated the formation of the antigen-MSN depot with inter-particle spaces for recruitment of antigen-presenting cells leading to enhanced immune responses in mice model. The experiments demonstrated that sera from mice and rabbits immunized with MSN-encapsulated PPRV were able to generate neutralizing antibodies and generated comparatively higher antibody responses in comparison to animals immunized with naked PPRV. Dendritic cell platforms for in vitro and in vivo studies of antigen processing and presentation in cattle for combined vaccine antigens using FMD virus and Pasteurella multocida as model: Foot-and-mouth disease [FMD] virus and Pasteurella multocida are economically important animal pathogens. Available vaccines for both pathogens are inactivated antigens, which induce immunologic response of shorter duration. In this direction, purified 146S antigen of FMDV was characterized by double antibody sandwich ELISA. The estimated concentrations for serotypes A, O and Asia 1 were 82.5 µg/ ml 423.3µg/ml and 190.5 µg/ml, respectively. Bacterial ghosts of P. multocida were produced using chemical methods and characterized Characterization of mesoporous silica nanoparticles (MSN) (A) SEM image of hollow mesoporous silica nanoparticles (HMSN), (B) TEM Image of HMSN Visualization of uptake of FITC-labelled MSN particles in Vero cells (40X magnification) (A) FITC labelled HMSN, (B) DAPI stained nuclei (C) Merged image representing the localization of MSN in the cytoplasm of Vero cells.