 Mango fruit pulp contains a variety of nutrient and non-nutrient bioactive compounds that have anti-carcinogenic, anti-hyperglycemic, anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant properties. Furthermore, the newly discovered health benefits of mango consumption (anti-wrinkle, anti-allergic, hypocholesterolemic, and immunomodulatory) are piquing interest in mango as a super fruit for improving human health and wellbeing. Nutraceutical compounds in mango Mango fruit is a rich source of health protecting vitamins (A and C), minerals (potassium, phosphorus and calcium) and sugars (glucose, fructose and sucrose). Ripe fruits are particularly rich in vitamin A, and mango consumption can greatly supplement the retinol equivalent requirements in humans. Mango fruit also has a moderate energy value, and can thus supplement the daily energy needs to a considerable extent. Though rich in sugars, mango consumption in moderate amounts seems to be safe even for diabetics. The polyphenols (e.g. mangiferin and lupeol) present in mango pulp show excellent anti- glycemic properties. Some clinical studies have also shown a lower glycemic index of mango: moderate amounts of mango consumption do not cause a post-meal increase in blood sugar (hyperglycemia) in both normal and diabetic individuals. The growing interest in mango as a functional food is mainly attributed to the presence of a wide range of carotenoids, flavonoids and polyphenols. Carotenoids Carotenoids, the pigments that impart a bright yellow color to mango pulp, exhibit strong free radical scavenging (antioxidant) effects, and are thus linked to reduced risk of chronic health problems like cancer, diabetes and heart diseases. b-carotene (pro-vitamin A) is the most abundant carotenoid in mango pulp; other lesser-known carotenoids include neo-b-carotene, auroxanthin, luteoxanthin, violaxanthin and zeaxanthin. A medium-sized ripe mango can enrich the diet with pro-vitamin A. In many countries, where dietary vitamin A needs are often met by artificial substitutes harmful to health; regular mango consumption can greatly meet daily vitamin A needs and eating the fruit regularly maintains eye health. Unlike other fruits like grapes in which carotenoid content drops after veraison, ripe mangoes continue to maintain carotenoid levels, making them an excellent material for developing b-carotene fortified products like wine. Ascorbic acid Ascorbic acid (vitamin C) acts as a strong antioxidant, offering protection against oxidative stress-induced health ailments. Further, it helps prevent scurvy, boosts the immune system and aids in healing. Mango fruits are an excellent source of ascorbic acid, and their vitamin C is comparable with citrus fruits and melons. Indian mango cultivars ‘Langra’ and ‘Mallika’ are quite rich in vitamin C (~50 mg/100 g of pulp). Mangiferin Mango is amongst a few plants that are abundant in mangiferin, a xanthone with remarkable health boosting properties.