 Amidst the transformative changes of this pivotal year, we have witnessed the revival of forgotten grains, the restoration of traditional wisdom, and the birth of innovative approaches to farming. From the inception of this global initiative, ICAR has been at the forefront, directing a series of events that has resonated across fields, laboratories, and international forums. The organization's unwavering commitment materialized through a number of initiatives, including millet promotion awareness programs, enriching international exchanges with FAO, thought-provoking conferences, insightful technical excursions, and the establishment of millet Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs). The journey was not limited to the borders of our nation. It extended globally, fostering collaboration and exchange of knowledge with FAO and other countries. ICAR organized Global Millets Conference on 13 March 2023, wherein Hon’ble PM Shri Narendra Modi declared ICAR- IIMR as a Global Centre for Excellence with bigger responsibilities to work for providing solution to global issues on millets. Hon’ble PM also declared millets as ‘Shree Anna’ for promotion and awareness of millets as an Indian Brand. ICAR also took lead in organization of Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists (MACS) of G-20 Countries with the theme of Sustainable Agri-Food Systems for Healthy People and Planet from 17-19 April 2023, where Millets And OtHer Ancient Grains International ReSearcH Initiative (MAHARISHI) was agreed with emphasis on millets. These international partnerships have been instrumental in showcasing the cultural, nutritional, and economic significance of millets on the global stage. As ambassador of sustainable agriculture, ICAR has not only elevated the profile of millets within our borders but has also contributed to shaping the discourse on a global scale. This editorial is an ode to the conclusion of the International Year of Millets and encapsulates the spirit of collaboration, resilience, and progress that defines our collective journey. From the seeds of an idea sown in the hallowed halls of FAO, we now reap the fruits of a shared commitment to a greener, healthier, and more sustainable future. As we reflect on the past, we also cast our gaze forward. The conclusion of the International Year of Millets is not an endpoint but a milestone in an ongoing journey. The legacy we cultivate today will be the harvest for generations to come. It is a clarion call to integrate the values of sustainability, nutrition, and community in our agricultural practices.