 m/KL Arundo donax 1-Lakh liter, Design: HSSF, HRT: 1.42 days Land demand: 7.24 sq. m/KL Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Palwal, Haryana Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur, Rajasthan Capacity: 1 Lakh liter, Design: HSSF (Mono-cultured) HRT: 1.59 days, Land demand: 7.35 sq. m/KL Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Kansiram Ngr,UP 1-Lakh liter, HSSF, HRT: 1.42 days Land demand: 7.24 sq. m/KL All India Women’s Conference, New Delhi 50,000 liter, Design: VSSF, HRT: 14.8 hr. Land demand: 1.6 sq. m/KL JalopcharTM - An Eco-friendly Wastewater Treatment Technology 17 Additional sites under commissioning: yy 68-Million litre per day capacity Eco-friendly STP for Construction of Polishing Unit for the Work of Creation of New Water Body at Sector 25, Rohini STP under EE(NW)-II of Delhi Jal Board, with 0.25 sq. m. per KL land requirement (in consultancy mode). yy 4.5-lakh litre per day capacity Eco-friendly Wastewater Treatment Facility for M/s RK Overseas Site in Ghilot Industrial Area, Rajasthan, with 2.50 sq. m. per KL land requirement (in consultancy mode). yy 1-lakh litre per day capacity institutional sewage treatment facility at KVK, Shikhopur, Haryana, with 5.5 sq. m. per KL land requirement (under Swachhtta Action Plan program of MOA&FW). yy 1-lakh litre per day capacity institutional sewage treatment facility at IIHR, Bengaluru, with 5.5 sq. m. per KL land requirement (under Swachhtta Action Plan program of MOA&FW). yy 1-lakh litre per day capacity institutional sewage treatment facility at CCARI, Goa, with 1.2 sq. m. per KL land requirement (under Swachhttaa Action Plan program of MOA&FW). As evident from the aforestated illustrations, the JalopcharTM technology is quite scalable as it can be used for designing wastewater treatment facilities with varying treatment goals and land area requirements (ranging from 0.25 m2/ KL, for the DJB site to 12.16 m2/ KL, for the Mathura site). 18 Compared to any conventional wastewater treatment technology of equivalent capacity, the proposed wastewater treatment technology could prove to be completely eco-friendly and innovative in terms of its following attributes: yy Has zero energy, zero-chemical and zero-skilled man power demand. yy Requires no external bio-inoculation, as required by the conventional wastewater treatment technologies. yy Produces zero sludge and hence requires no de-sludging, as required in DEWATS and other conventional technologies. yy The technology is quite scalable and can be designed for varying land areas, depending upon the site-specific design requirements. It requires no anaerobic fixed bed filter/ baffled reactor and baffled treatment cells, as required by other similar technologies. Hence, it has simpler, compacter and (about 66%) lower land demanding engineering design than the conventional technologies.