 Overall cultivation of speciality corn provides higher income, more cropping intensity, increase in milk and meat production, better value addition and more employment generation. Their global spread, increasing demand and premium price make them an attractive option for the farmers in many foreign countries including India. Speciality corns are amenable to numerous options pertaining to harvest time and various economical products. The quality protein maize (QPM) productivity is similar to normal maize, however, the biological value of QPM is almost double as compared to normal maize and more than rice and wheat. True protein digestibility of QPM is similar to milk, which helps in reducing feed requirement. Per unit protein production expenditure in QPM is much lower as compared to animal protein, so it can be used as nutritional food for ill-nourished population especially in tribal and hilly regions. Besides this, QPM can be used as nutritionally superior food for pregnant and lactating women, adolescent and old age population of the country. QPM also provides quality feed to poultry industry. Thus QPM can ensure food and nutritional security in India. Resource conservation techniques in maize-based cropping systems The key to achieve the optimum plant stand and higher crop productivity is crop establishment. Interaction between seed, soil moisture, seedling depth, method of sowing etc. determines the crop establishment. Traditionally, crops are grown mostly after tilling the field either in row or by random broadcasting. These traditional methods of sowing have limitations such as uneven plant stand, improper plant geometry resulting in low input-use efficiency and low crop productivity. Intensive tillage contributes to nearly 30% of the cost of production resulting in lower economic returns, decrease in soil organic matter and biodiversity. Various resource conservation technologies like zero tillage, raised bed planting etc came in practice for various maize-based cropping Table 1. Maize-based cropping systems in different agro-climatic zones of India Agro-climatic region Irrigated Rainfed Lower Gangetic Plain region Autumn rice-maize Rice-maize Jute-rice-maize Middle Gangetic Plain region Maize-early potato-wheat-mungbean Maize-wheat Maize-wheat Maize-wheat-mungbean Maize-wheat-urdbean Maize-sugarcane-mungbean Upper Gangetic Plain region Maize-wheat Maize-wheat Maize-wheat-mungbean Maize-barley Maize-potato-wheat Maize-safflower Maize-potato-sunflower Maize-potato-onion Maize-potato-sugarcane-ratoon Trans Gangetic Plain region Maize-wheat Maize-wheat Maize-wheat-mungbean Maize-potato-wheat Maize-potato-sunflower Maize-potato-onion Mungbean-maize-toria-wheat Maize-potato-mungbean Maize-potato-spring maize Maize-vegetable pea-spring maize Table 2.