 Beekeeping was proven to be an alternative livelihood option with potential of providing alternative income security to smallholder tribal farmers living in forest area of Dantewada district of Chattisgarh. Of the 500 beneficiaries of 16 villages who were taken as a unit for analysis to check the enhancement of farmer’s income annually, 470 beneficiaries were found highly benefitted by bee keeping which brought tangible change in their living standards. In a study by the scientist of the KVK (West Godavari), it was observed that age, education, social participation, economic orientation, market orientation, extension participation and knowledge level were positively and significantly associated with extent of adoption of apiary technology for income generation. SUMMARY Apiary has been established through training and demonstration as a viable and sustainable source of income to tribal farmers of west Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh. The KVK, West Godavari ensured the success of this entrepreneurial activity through continued hand holding, timely advisory and establishment of market channels. Skills related to multiplication of bee colonies, preparation of bee boxes, extraction and packing of byproducts like propolis, bee wax, royal jelly would further strengthen and diversify the apiary enterprise. There is an ample scope for encouraging production of organic honey in interior tribal areas where there is minimal use of chemical inputs in agriculture and horticulture. *Corresponding author email: prasadjil64@gmail.com community to manage various weather aberrations. incidents (2021) as compared to base year 2016. Contributions of KVKs at National Level e Ushering pulses revolution through cluster frontline demonstration (CFLD) - Pulses production enhanced from 17.70 MT (three years average during 2013-2016) to 27.80 MT in 2022-23. e Doubling farmers income through farm-based interventions - Documentation and analysis of 75000 cases. e District agriculture contingency plans for 623 districts - Ready reckoner for line departments and farming e Crop residue management (CRM) in 60 districts of 4 states - Reduction (52%) in crop residue burning e Scaling of IFS models - 64 IFS models for 26 States/Uts: Thirty one bankable IFS for 22 States - 39% increase in net income of households and dietary diversity score improved by 8.57%. Farmer FIRST: Farm, Innovations, New interventions to reach the unreached Scheme Achievement 20 states, 51 centres, 114 villages, 48921 farm Resource, Science and Technology families ARYA (Attracting and Retaining Youth in | 100 KVK, 65661 youths trained, 14878 enterprises Agriculture) established KSHAMTA (Knowledge Systems and Homestead Agriculture Management in Tribal Areas) 26800 demonstrations.