.... (area of land) of good quality land free from encumbrances, litigation and attachments at the site duly selected by the FIRST PARTY, located at …............................... exclusively for conducting the mandated activities of the KVK; (ii) The Staff, infrastructure, equipments and livestock, if any, at present available with the SECOND PARTY and specifically identified by the FIRST PARTY for transfer to KVK as agreed from time to time. (iii) Monetary and material support in addition to the provision made by the FIRST PARTY with a view to enlarging the programmes of the KVK; 142 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK 7. The SECOND PARTY, in addition, agrees: (i) That the grant given by the FIRST PARTY will be utilised exclusively for the intended purpose of the Project and on items for which it is sanctioned by the FIRST PARTY. (ii) To open a separate Bank account in the name of KVK where entire grants-in-aid received from the FIRST PARTY would be deposited and amount will be withdrawn for the expenditure to be made only for the activities/programmes of the KVK including salary of the staff of KVK. (iii) That the interest earned out of FIRST PARTY’s grant will be indicated in the account of KVK, which will be maintained separately, and intimated to the FIRST PARTY at regular intervals along with progress report. The interest earned by the KVK from the bank account, where all FIRST PARTY grants are deposited, will be taken into account while making remittance/release. In other words the grants to be released to the KVK will stand reduced to the extent interest earned from the bank account. (iv) That the profit/resource generated from KVK, if any will be ploughed back and utilised for development and execution of the KVK Project and that no portion other than agreed by the FIRST PARTY would be utilized by the SECOND PARTY for any other purpose. In case any amount is diverted for any non-KVK activity, the same shall be deducted by the FIRST PARTY from the grant due to SECOND PARTY subsequently. (v) That the SECOND PARTY will submit the demand for funds to the FIRST PARTY in the prescribed proforma within the time prescribed by the FIRST PARTY for this purpose. (vi) That the financial assistance rendered by the FIRST PARTY will always be acknowledged in any published account of the work for which the grant is given. (vii) To reflect the sanctioned budget in its annual Institutional budget book. (viii) To associate the FIRST PARTY in the Selection/recruitment Committees appointed for the recruitment of the scientific, technical and other personnel of the KVK. (ix) To strictly follow the pattern and procedure laid down by the FIRST PARTY for the Selection Committees for the recruitment of KVK Personnel. (x) To keep the designations and duties of the staff in accordance with the provisions made in the project.