 151 Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Habit : 1105 : Use of bhara or kans leaf for rat control : Volume 2, page 137 : bhara or kans : Hindi: kans, kas; Sanskrit: kasa. : Saccharum spontaneum Linn. : Used for the production of hard boards, rayon-grade pulps and activated carbon. It become a very pernicious weed once it is allowed to infest cultivated land, so that sometimes cultivators have to abandon the land altogether. : A perennial grass with slender culms, growing in stools or forming continuous cane-brakes with most often aggressive rhizomatous tillering, distributed widely in the sub-tropical and tropical parts of Asia, Africa and ascending up to an altitude of 1,800 m. Culms green, grey, ivory or white, hard, but very pithy, and often hollow in the centre, varying in diameter from 5 to 15 mm, leaves long, linear, narrow or very narrow or sometimes reduced to the midrib; inflorescence a panicle varying in length and in colour from pale or greyish white to purplish grey; spikelets in pairs, one pedicelled and the other sessile, the pedicelled spikelet of the pair always blooming first; glumes always four and lodicules ciliate. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1114 Rat control with bhara grass Volume 2, page 138 bhara Refer to ITK Code No. 1105 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1836 Rat control in wheat by using flower or inflorescence of Gliricidia plant Volume 2, page 138 Gliricidia Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Gliricidia sepium (Jacq.) Walp. The tree is considered poisonous to rats and other rodents but not to cattle. The seeds yield fatty oil. Powdered seeds, leaves and bark are mixed with rice and used as bait for the destruction of pests. Leaves, petioles and bark are reported to possess slight insecticidal activity. A small or medium-sized tree with a short bole, introduced into India primarily as a shade tree in plantations. Leaves large, imparipinnate, with 7-15 leaflets, bright green above and pale below; flowers purplish-pink or white, borne in great profusion when leaves are shed; pods linear, 4-8 in. long, compressed, containing 10 or more seeds. The tree is grown fairly widely in parts of Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, and Kerala up to an elevation of 3,000 ft. Inflorescence Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 15 Spraying of neem-leaf solution for control of pests in groundnut Volume 2, page 139 Neem Refer to ITK Code No.