 Fortification of micronutrients in larval and broodstock diet, exogenous enzymes in fish feed, Feed storage, packaging and prevention of spoilage. Unit 4. Nutrition and Fish Health Nutrients and their effects on fish health. Nutritional diseases, anti-nutritional factors, nutraceuticals for fish health, nutrients and immunity, nutrients and flesh quality, hyper and hypovitaminosis. Mycotoxins in fish feed, nutritional imbalances. Dietary lipid and stress tolerance in fish larvae. Mycotoxin in fish feed. Phytase and phytate in feed ingredients. Anti-nutritional factors in feed ingredients. Anti-nutrients and metabolism. Nutrient deficiency diseases. Unit 5: Nutrigenomics Nutritionally important genes, gene regulation by lipids and carbohydrates, metabolic control analysis, transcriptomics, proteomics and metabolomics, nutrient-gene interaction and expression, reverse transcription and CDNA synthesis, genetic control of metabolic pathways, functional food aids in prevention of human health disorders. 104 11.5 FISH HEALTH Unit 1. Introduction to Fish Health and Pathology Definition of health and disease in fish. Predisposing factors, biotic and abiotic factors, Stress and general adaptation syndrome. Role of physical (injuries, health, cold) chemical (pH, salinity, toxins, ammonia, nitrogeneous waste, endogeneous chemical metabolites, free radicals, oxidants) soil and water parameters in fish health. Host-pathogen-environment interaction, toxins and nutritional factors in disease process. General pathology- degeneration, necrosis, apoptosis, inflammation, classification of inflammation, biology of inflammatory phenomenon, signs and pathology of inflammation, chemical mediators release from inflamed cells and tissues involved and their function, immunoglobulins, memory system, antigens, haptens and carriers, monoclonal antibodies, lymphoid organs, B lymphocytes, T lymphocytes, subsets and nature of receptors, macrophages, RES, cell-mediated immune responses, complement system, MHC, autoimmunity, immunological tolerances, macrophages, fibroblasts, myofibroblasts, endothelial cells, extracellular matrix and growth factors in healing and defense. Unit 2. Diseases of Fish Major bacterial, viral, fungal, parasitic, non-infectious diseases of fish and shellfish in aquaculture systems. Cell lines and their use in virus isolation, bacterial metabolism, bacterial toxins and pathogenesis, diverse bacterial species infection fish and shellfish, evolution and classification of viruses, virus-host relationship, replication of virus, molecular pathogenesis, viral vaccines, new antiviral compounds, virus and gene therapy, RNA and DNA viruses in fish and shell fish and their antigenicity, cultivation, pathogenesis, diagnosis, epidemiology, diagnosis, treatment, prophylaxis and immunity.