 These standards will be useful during the integration of various data sources and ensure the interoperability. This will have bigger network of various human resources. If required, a platform for software development will be created cutting across ICAR Institutes. This network may use IT human resources and services of other ICAR Institutes. 5.3.1 Roles and Responsibilities yy All projects meet overall planning objectives and specific key performance indicators as determined by the Council. yy The group will design and develop systems in the development environment by ensuring the quality standards and interoperability of the product and responsible to get certification from quality assurance and testing group for its release. This group will also develop the SRS for requirement analysis. SG1 - UI / UX Design yy Design of responsive web design interface, screen, layout etc. yy Design of logos, images, header etc. SG2 - Application Development yy Design and development of the standalone and web-based software. yy Manage, maintain and monitor the source code repository / library. yy Maintain the interoperability across various applications. yy Standardization through API and web services development. SG3 - Web Portal Development yy Development of web portal. yy Technology specific and cross platform development. SG4 - Mobile App Development yy Mobile app development. yy Upgradation of mobile apps. 14 ICT-Roadmap SG5 - API and Web Service Development yy Compliance of standards and ensure inter-operability. yy API development. yy Web services development. 5.4 FG3 - Software Standards and Quality Assurance The role of this group is to prepare data standards, metadata, architecture blueprint, strategies, policies and its upgradation. The group will also be responsible for testing of the developed product by following testing standards earlier mentioned to meet the quality of the product. The group will be responsible for design, develop and upgrade the architecture based on the upcoming technologies and development. 5.4.1 Roles and Responsibilities yy Development of ICT guidelines, policy and procedures. yy Data standards and metadata management. yy Quality control and testing. yy Software evaluation of IT products. yy Promoting the adoption of new technologies. yy Capacity building and training. SG1 - Standardization of Data and Meta Data Management yy Define and develop the data standards. yy Primary data management. yy Development of coding standard and master data management. yy Develop and maintain the meta data repository. yy Meta data schema design, development and maintenance. yy Meta Data acquisition and catalogue management. SG2 - Technical, Solution and Enterprise Architects yy Design the product specific technical architecture. yy Design and proposed the overall solution architecture, including hardware. yy Design the enterprise architecture and maintain uniformity. SG3 - Quality Assurance and Testing yy To test the developed application.