 Overall, farmers opine that government should support supplying subsidized organic inputs and ensure premium prices for their output for wider adoption of organic agriculture. 3.9. Constraints in PKVY Programme Implementation The study results show that organic agriculture is proﬁtable, especially in the rainfed and hilly areas, for all three crops. This section examines the constraints in implementing the organic agriculture scheme in rainfed and the hilly regions. In all 576 sample clusters, FGDs were organized with critical informants such as local agricultural ofﬁcers and pro- gressive farmers to elucidate constraints faced by farmers to expand the area under organic agriculture. The organic agriculture proﬁtability is location-speciﬁc, but the PKVY scheme was implemented in all regions without seeing suitability and proﬁtability. Hence, there is a need to identify and prioritize locations and crops for vertical expansion and the saturation of identiﬁed locations to reap the scale and brand beneﬁts. Funds are thinly distributed over large areas; focusing on speciﬁc areas can also ensure adequate availability of funds in priority zones. Further, it is also worth mentioning that in-between the transition period of the ﬁrst and second year, some farmers discontinued organic agriculture in the middle due to the discontinuation of matching grants from the government. To reap the full beneﬁts, such as certiﬁcation, there should be uninterrupted support for at least 3 years. Most farmers do not realize the price premium for the organic produce. All regulated government markets must arrange separate sale counters for certiﬁed organic produce. The services of private marketing agencies, farmers’ producer companies and cooperatives need to be taken for marketing and certiﬁcation systems in Public-Private Partnership mode. Most of the inputs required in organic agriculture come from animals and native tree species. Hence, farmers need to be encouraged to grow livestock and native trees to produce bio-inputs. 4. Implementation Bottlenecks and Gaps at Macro-Level Fund Allocation and Utilization The last few years’ experience has shown that the budget allocations to the organic agricultural scheme were interrupted and discontinued at the local level. There was a discrepancy in the release of funds to the extent that only 50–60 percent of the allocated funds were released. Further, of the released amount, only 60–70 percent were utilized (Figure 8). It indicates a need to streamline fund release and utilization. Focus group discussions with ofﬁcials indicated several governance issues leading to a delay in the supply of crucial inputs at the required time. Handholding by NGO-RCs is better in community activities such as bio-input preparations; hence, NGOs’ participation is needed in organic agriculture.