 Reenat Sandhu at Rome Indian Embassy Appraising about IYOM in side meetings at FAO Rome Indian Farming 14 January 2023 needed research that can enhance its production and boost its consumption. Mr Guenter walkner (Austria) I am honoured to speak on behalf of the European Union and its 28 Member States. We would like to comment on all items under agenda item 11, International Years and Days. We are aware of the important role millet play for global food security, not just in developing countries but also in developed countries and countries with economies in transition. The topic of food waste and food losses along the whole production and consumption chain is of particular importance for the European Union and its Member States. Therefore, the European Union and its Member States support the endorsement of the proposal from India. Mr Mohammad Jawad ranjbar (Afghanistan) The world’s production of millets which grows in semi-arid tropics of Asia and Africa is estimated to be close to 30 million metric tonnes a year. The share of developing countries is 97% of this level of production. Although India and Nigeria are the two major producers of millets, the crop is grown in many countries of Asia, China, Myanmar, Pakistan, West Africa, Burkina Faso, Niger and East Africa, Eritrea and Ethiopia and in Sudan. It is rich in nutrients and superior to other cereals. Afghanistan supports the request of the Government of India to establish the observance of an International Year of Millets for 2023. Mr Ivan konstantinopolskiy (Russian Federation) We also support the Indian initiative for the proclamation 2023 of the International Year of Millets. Ms Jacinta ngwiri (Kenya) I want to give Kenya’s support to the statements by the various Africa Regional Group countries, with respect to the observance of the International Year on Millets. However, I want to make some more observations as Kenya with respect to millets. They are grown in drought-prone areas and largely among poor communities. This makes millets important for food security among these communities. In Africa however, the production of millets crop is fairly positive signalling the importance of the crop to many countries, particularly in Africa. In Kenya the area and production of millet has stagnated over time with occasional declines during periods of drought and erratic weather. We note that the need to elevate awareness of the contribution of nutritious cereals for food security and nutrition is key. Therefore there is need to inspire and mobilize stakeholders, including national governments to work towards improving production, productivity and quality of millets. Kenya endorses the proposal to establish observance of an International Year of Millets in 2023.