4 million ha of farmland covered, 3-14 : 1 benefit-cost ratio, 20-66% increase in crop yield and Rs 1,268 crore net benefits accrued in 4 years. 3. Projects/activities in progress in India Since 1992, a Joint ICAR-ICRISAT Policy Advisory Committee was formed to oversee collaboration and initiate formal ICAR- ICRISAT Joint Research projects that are renegotiated in a three-year cycle. Ten research projects were undertaken during 2010-12 and eight joint research projects conducted in 2013-15. For 2016-18, following joint projects are undertaken i. Integrating systems modelling tools enabling informed decisions for upscaling climate resilient agriculture. ii. Development of genetic and genomic resources of finger millet and its application in crop improvement. iii. Enhancing genetic gains for priority traits in grain legumes and dryland cereals. iv. Digitalization of Breeding Database through Integrated Breeding Platform (IBP) for National Agriculture Research System. v. Transgenic pigeonpea and chickpea for insect resistance. vi. Smart Food Initiative. vii. Interim support for the core breeding programs of ICRISAT grain legume and dryland cereal crops. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 39 4. Yearly action plan and collaborators from NARES yy For all six mandate crops, the BPAT (Breeding Program Analysis Tool) is being operationalized for enhancing the efficiency of ICRISAT breeding programs to achieve higher genetic gains through targeted breeding initiatives. Learning from this process will be shared with NARES partners. yy New markers for prioritized traits across ICRISAT mandate crops will be developed and validated. Validation and deployment of markers for at least one additional high priority traits in each crop (except finger millet) will be made available for forward breeding. yy Additional transgenic events expressing higher levels of CRY toxin in both chickpea and pigeonpea will be developed. Progenies of promising events will be advanced and evaluated in insect feeding assays. A field trial for existing cry1ac pigeonpea events will be carried out in Kharif 2017 following permission from Regulatory Authorities. yy ICRISAT will continue to support the Government of India for the doubling of farmers’ incomes and will contribute to its strategy of a holistic livelihood ecoregion-based approach with appropriate institutional mechanisms for achieving the goal of doubling the farmer’s income by 2022. yy Effort will continue on popularizing pigeonpea hybrids, evaluating short duration pigeonpea hybrids as well as machine harvestable chickpea, high oil content lines of groundnut, and high-yielding dual purpose sorghum. yy ICRISAT will continue to popularize and demonstrate sustainable intensification of rice fallows using pulses and also sweet sorghum in target states in India and contribute to the Government of India’s target of achieving 3 million hectares cultivation of rice fallows.