 There were other areas also on which relatively smaller number of training courses were organized for the rural youth. About 40% of these trainings were conducted on-campus. Extension personnel: Capacity development of 1.16 lakh extension personnel (23.45% female participants) was carried out through 3,948 courses in the country. Extension functionaries working both in government and non-government organizations were included in these trainings, which mainly focused on agricultural technologies and knowledge enhancement in field crops (15.39%), integrated pest management (15.39%), integrated nutrient management (10.37%), protected cultivation technology (5.75%), information networking among farmers (5.32%) and women and child care (4.76%). Information management of farm animals, livestock feed and fodder production, protected cultivation technologies and information communication technology (ICT) applications were other areas under such training courses. Higher proportion of trainings for extension personnel were organized on-campus (59.86%) compared to the off-campus (40.14%). Sponsored training programmes: Sponsored training courses (6,680) were organized for 2.41 lakh participants comprising farmers, farm-women, and rural youth and extension personnel. The women participants constituted 32.22% training programmes. The programmes mainly focused on crop production and management (59.86%), livestock and fisheries (15.09%), home science (9.31%), agricultural extension (8.88%), farm machinery (1.95%) and miscellaneous (16.52%). Similarly, there were 3,303 sponsored training for vocational courses which benefited 56,702 rural youth of the country. Extension programmes KVKs organized extension programmes/activities (6.30 lakh) in the form of advisory services, diagnostic and clinic service, celebration of important days, exhibitions, exposure visit, ex-trainees sammelan, farm science club conveners’ meet, farmers’ seminar, farmers’ visit to KVK, field days, film shows, group meeting, kisan ghosthi, kisan melas, lectures delivered as resource Success Story Backyard nutritional kitchen garden for nutritional security and additional income Backyard nutritional kitchen garden was demonstrated to farm women’s families in Nutri Smart Village Morjhira, Burhanpur District, Madhya Pradesh. Training, exposure visit and farm women-scientist interaction on various aspects including vegetable grown in homestead, homestead vegetable utilization, average vegetable consumption, nutrient contribution from homestead vegetable gardening were undertaken by KVK Burhanpur. Pre-survey was conducted to obtain information regarding profile and dietary food habits and nutritional deficiency diseases. After one year of Demonstration and training on nutritional kitchen garden establishment of nutritional garden, a survey was done to analyze the impact of kitchen gardens on nutritional status of selected farm women’s families.