 The major activities comprise of genetic enhancement of lentil, Kabuli chickpea, grasspea, faba bean, barley, durum and bread wheat, cactus and other forages, water productivity enhancement, mapping of rice fallows, impact studies, etc. Some of these activities are directly undertaken through a rolling work-plan operating with ICAR institutions and state agricultural universities. yy 5 projects (15 sub-projects) comprising of crop improvement (pulses, cereals, forages), resource conservation technology, water productivity, socio-economics, capacity development. yy Enhancing food and nutritional security, and improved livelihoods through intensification of rice-fallow system with pulse crops in South Asia. yy Variety, technology and seed system development for pulses in Odisha – Odisha Pulse Mission (OPM). yy Development of lentil cultivar with high concentration of iron and zinc. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 21 yy Increasing food legumes production by small farmers to strengthen food and nutrition security through adoption of improved technologies and governance within south-south cooperation. yy Application of Genomics to Innovation in the Lentil Economy (AGILE). 4. Yearly action plan and collaborators from NARES The following yearly action-plan has been chalked-out to carry forward to achieve goal of ICAR-ICARDA collaboration. yy Genetic enhancement for the development of machine harvestable herbicide tolerant lentil cultivars for commercial production in India. Collaborators: IIPR, IARI, VPKAS, NBPGR, CSKHPKVV, PAU, JNKVV, RAU. yy Breeding and selection for the development of small-seeded and extra short-duration lentil varieties suitable in rice fallows as relay (zero tillage) and sole crops in new niches of rice-based cropping systems of eastern India: Collaborators: IIPR, NBPGR, ICAR-NEH, BCKV, BAU. yy Introduction and use of exotic germplam and development of large-seeded, extra short duration Kabuli chickpea varieties with resistance to wilt/root rots, Botrytis gray mold and Ascochyta blight and tolerant to heat. Collaborators: IIPR, IARI, NBPGR, CSKHPKVV, PAU, JNKVV, MPKV, RAU. yy Multi-location testing and selection for high yielding and low-ODAP grasspea varieties adapted to rice based cropping systems for food and fodder production. Collaborators: IIPR, NBPGR, IGFRI, BCKV, IGKVV. yy Development of early high yielding, multiple disease resistant and drought tolerant Faba bean early varieties in India. Collaborators: IIPR, NBPGR, BCKV, ICAR-NEH, RAU. yy Development and deployment of climate resilient germplasm of barley and wheat for wide adaptation under climate change scenarios. Collaborators: IIWBR, VPKAS, PAU, RAU, CCSHAU, JNKVV, IARI, SKNAU, GAU, UAS. yy Development and deployment of appropriate varieties and technologies for improving farmers’ income and livelihoods in rain-fed production systems through agricultural intensification and crop diversification.