 During the past 3 decades, technologies for rainwater harvesting and recycling, multiple uses of water, conjunctive use of rain, surface Achievements in Natural Resource Management in Independent India 269 and groundwater resources, micro-irrigation and optimum irrigation scheduling, seed bed configurations, alternate furrow irrigation, mulching, direct seeded rice (DSR), system of rice intensification (SRI), alternate wetting and drying were developed/standardized to enhance irrigation water use efficiency and water productivity. Tank-cum-well system technology along the drainage line in a watershed suitable for plateau areas having slope of 2 to 5% has also been developed (Fig. 9). A flexible rubber dam has been designed to harvest rainwater and regulate flow of water in streams (Fig. 10) and installed at 34 locations in 8 states. Development and standardization of sensor-based drip irrigation in banana improved the productivity of banana with water saving of 20% compared to manual drip irrigation. Fig. 9. Tank cum well system for rainwater harvesting for eastern plateau region Fig. 10. A flexible rubber dam for water harvesting in watershed Research on use of saline water and alkali water for irrigation under different agro-climatic regions was initiated during 1970s. National groundwater quality map for irrigation purpose was prepared after survey, characterization and groundwater quality classification (Fig. 11). The National guidelines for use of saline and alkali water for irrigation was prepared in 1990 and published as Indian Standard (IS 11624: 2019) for Quality of Indian Agriculture after Independence 270 Irrigation Water-Guidelines. These guidelines are being adopted in the states of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Gujarat. To tap and use the shallow good quality groundwater floating over the subsurface saline water in coastal region, developed and standardized skimming well/Doruvu technology locally called “Doruvus” in Andhra Pradesh (Fig. 12). Fig. 11. Groundwater quality map for irrigation Fig. 12. Skimming well in Coastal Andhra Pradesh 2.4. Sustainable production systems The report of Dr. A.B. Stewart of Macaulay Institute of Soil Research, Aberdeen (U.K.) submitted to Government of India in 1947 led to initiation of Simple Fertilizer Trials on Cultivators’ Fields scheme during 1952-53. This scheme helped popularization of fertilizer use and increase in crop productivity in the early days. In 1956, ‘Model Agronomic Experiments’ were added and All India Coordinated Agronomic Experiments Scheme started as an ICAR Project.