 The crops susceptible to water logging and/or lodging, like maize, pigeon pea, soybean, green gram, vegetable pea, mustard etc, could be more beneficial under bed planting. In many cases same beds could be utilized for the succeeding crops without any tillage operations and thereby reducing the cost of cultivation. • A machine named "Rotary Disc Drill" capable of seeding into loose crop residue has been developed and needs further refinement especially the front powered discs. This is the only machine which can also seed crops into sugarcane ratoons. • Crop intensification/diversification‐ Continuously growing rice‐wheat adversely affects the soil physico‐chemical properties, decreases productivity and causes weed infestation. Intensification of rice‐wheat system by introducing short duration legume crops for grains or green manuring in between rice and wheat helps in restoring soil health by enhancing the organic matter contents and improving the soil physico‐chemical properties. Alternate cropping sequences like rice‐potato‐wheat, rice‐pea‐wheat, Rice‐wheat‐GM/moong, maize‐ wheat, cotton‐wheat and sugarcane‐wheat etc. are some of the options for the farmers depending upon the agro‐situations to increase profitability and sustainability. This is applicable to North Western India covering rice‐wheat growing areas of Punjab, Haryana, Northern Rajasthan and Western UP. Moong (SML 668) can be grown in between wheat and rice especially when wheat is grown on raised beds. One can harvest around 5 q/ha moong grains and its residues can be incorporated in the field as manure. The biomass added to the soil is around 100 q/ha on fresh weight basis and about 20 q/ha on dry weight basis, which adds around 50 kg N/ha, thus saving about 20% N for rice crop. • Herbicides effective for the control of isoproturon resistant biotypes of Phalaris minor are www.icar.org.in 107 2002 ‐ 2007 sulfosulfuron 25 g/ha, clodinafop 60g/ha fenoxaprop 100‐120 g/ha and pinoxaden 35 g/ha. Sulfosulfuron is effective against both grassy and non‐grassy weeds whereas, clodinafop, fenoxaprop and pinoxaden are specific to grasses. Metsulfuron @ 4.0 g/ha and Carfentrazone @ 20 g/ha were found effective against broadleaf weeds. For control of grassy weeds including isoproturon resistant P. minor, pinoxaden at 35 g/ha have also been found effective in barley. Multiple resistance in P. minor against isoproturon, c1odinafop and sulfosulfuron has been detected in some biotypes and for its management pendimethalin and triazines were found effective. In zero tillage less P. minor population were observed compared to conventional but Rumex dentatus was favoured by ZT system. • In the termite prone areas, seed treatment with chlorpyriphos @ 0.9g a.i or endosulfan @ 2.4g a.i/kg seed, be taken up for their management. Termite control be given special attention under FIRBS in the termite prone area. Fipronil (Regent 5FS @ 0.3 g a.i./kg seed) is also very effective.