 Yet, there are many avenues and opportunities through which farmers’ income can be enhanced. We do hope that there is still a possibility of increase in productivity of important crops grown in the state through genetic improvement and plugging some deficiencies in production and protection practices. Punjab agriculture is considered to be over-capitalised and follows input use intensive farming. Therefore, cost of farming operations especially in case of marginal, small and semi-medium farmers can be significantly reduced through cooperative/collective/group ownership of farm machinery or utilizing the farm machinery services on custom hiring basis. Similarly, expenditure on inputs especially fertilizers and pesticides need to be optimized through strengthening and improved agricultural extension services. Inefficiency in the agricultural markets is another grey area. Price realization is poor especially in case of perishables, pulses and maize. Planned and collective marketing, government intervention during the period of distress prices and tapping the scope of distant and export markets can help raising agricultural price and consequently farm incomes. Likewise, expansion in horticulture sector, livestock sector and agro-processing has got the potential of enhancing farm income in the state. Production of fruits and vegetables can be expanded by about 60-70% in next five years with improved market efficiency and value addition. Processing of vegetables, fruits and cereals carries the scope of increasing income of farmers by adding value to the produce, reducing wastage and raising agricultural output prices. Due to change in consumption patterns and consequent higher demand for dairy, fishery and other livestock products, livestock sector has also the potential to increase farm income in the state. Improvement in productivity, more processing, better health care, etc. in case of livestock products are required to tap this potential. Emphasis will have to be laid on setting up of multi-commodity small agro-processing centers in rural areas for primary processing and value addition. The farmers shall be organized into Producer Groups/Companies to produce products conforming to uniform standards and required quality. Suitable incentives shall be provided to facilitate the setting up such centers and marketing of their products. Medium and large scale processing units will also be, promoted in public sector and in PPP mode. Tax incentives and capital assistance/equity participation shall be provided to facilitate their establishment in order to provide front end linkages to the producers of alternative crops. Success Stories 1.