 For the Rice Crop Manager, 45 Head to Head trials to test the rainfed component of RCM, 15 on- farm trials to test the weed management component of RCM established with NRRI, 3 on- station experiments on productivity and resource use efficiency in different cropping systems established with OUAT, 15 on-farm trials on zinc management, 4 Ph.D. students involved in strategic research from OUAT, BHU, BAU & Amity University. Rice Value Chain, Value Addition and Post- Harvest Management Under the IRRI initiative, KVK-Khordha wih ICAR-CIFA worked on the designing the validation trail of Solar Bubble Dryer and other innovations. Association with OUAT was made by collaborating the validation of Solar Bubble Dryer systematically with defined parameters. The Grain safe prototype developed by IRRI for hermetic storage and solar drying of paddy in one operation was set up at RARS, AAU, Titabar. One ton of paddy seed was placed inside the Grain safe and initial moisture content of the paddy seed (var. Shraboni) was recorded 16-17.5%. One post Graduate M.Sc. (Agri) student, has been entrusted for taking periodical observations of the seed stored. Super bag trial was planned in Cuttack at farmer’s field as well as at KVK, Santhpur to see the quality of paddy and other parameters. Similarly, in collaboration with OUAT, rice is stored in super bag to check the cooking quality, insect control and other quality parameter. Both trials are going on and the result will come after 4 months. Integrated Solutions for Risk Management Socially Acceptable Comprehensive Crop Insurance: In collaboration with CIWA, IRRI provided support to two group-based women enterprise activities through the NGOs SWAD and Pragathi. Capacity Building of 20 women farmer leaders on production and access to quality seeds completed; Seed system interface meeting of women members from 20 different groups with seed dealers, vendors, DOA and OSSC officials conducted; Demonstration of scientific seed storage practices using “IRRI superbag” conducted. Work initiated to establish mobile rice processing mill at Koraputhelping 2000 women farmers growing aromatic paddy in 1000 acres. Adarsh Dharmagarh women farmers Services producer company limited (ADWFSPCL) is Table 9: Illustrates details of experiments by different CGIAR centres conducted in 2019. Institutions Activities in district Area Demo crop Previous cropping IRRI I-Concept, OUAT & NRRI 7 Ha Pulse crop, Vegetables Rice-fallow/Rice-pulse CIP Puri, Koraput and Mayurbhanj 7 Ha Sweet Potato Rice-fallow ICARDA Kheonjar 2 Ha Pulse crop Rice-fallow/Rice-pulse ICRISAT Kalahandi, Nuapada, Nabrangpur 22 Ha in each district Pigeon Pea / Check Pea Rice-fallow/Rice-pulse WVC Koraput & Puri (I-concept) 2 Ha Vegetables, heat tolerant/pulses Rice-fallow/Rice-pulse ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 62 registered as an FPC and has mobilized 1751 women members.