 The Handbook would be of great value to students, researchers, planners, farmers, young entrepreneurs and all stakeholders in fisheries and aquaculture. For obtaining copies: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 09-11-25841282; E-mail : bmicar@icar.org.in TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Size : Royal Octavo (16 cm × 24 cm)  No. of pages : i-x + 1116  Price : ` 1500  Postage : Rs 100 ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-106-2 Indian Farming November 2020 38 Seafood value addition Current trends and future prospects Parvathy U, Binsi P K, Ashok Kumar K and Ravishankar C N ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kochi, Kerala 682 029 Value addition is the key word in the seafood processing industry as it widens the possibilities of maximum returns by foreign exchange earnings. India, being one of the fastest growing economies and the second largest consumer market in the world, offers a strong platform for processed seafood industry. Based on the market requirement, seafood value addition can be diversified. The category of value added commodities range from live seafoods to ready-to-eat convenient products. Value addition also explores new dimensions for the effective utilization of fishery by-catches. India, being adequately equipped with skilled manpower and the dominance in several agri-commodities offers advantage to make strong seafood market capture with a wide array of commodities. Keywords: Fish Processing, Seafood Market, Surimi, Value Addition Indian Farming 70(11): 38–40; November 2020 V ALUE in the context of food, is an aggregation of functional characteristics arising on account of nutritional and sensory aspects at superior quality as well as affordable price. Further, it promises utilization of the under-exploited nutrient rich resources in the most effective manner. Value added fish products are presented in a preparatory and convenient form. It can be products ranging from simple dressed/ trimmed, minced forms to advanced ready-to-eat styles. Value addition can also be in the form of a new package in eco-labelling with multiple dimensions of flavor profiles on account of added ingredients. It is one of the possible approach to raise profitability in seafood industry, which is becoming highly competitive, lucrative and increasingly expensive. The commonly practiced processing techniques in seafood sector include curing, which includes salting, smoking, drying, pickling, canning, freezing, surimi processing, etc. Some high-end technologies, viz. minimal processing, irradiation eat/serve convenience products. India, being the largest producer of several agri-commodities, offers wide possibilities of value addition and product development for the domestic as well as export market.