 Fodder cactus Fodder beet: Fodder beet (Beta vulgaris) is one of the highest yielding forage crops and is a good source of renewable energy. The crop has a potential to produce the green fodder (root + foliage) of 150 to >200 t/ha in about 4 months. The crop has very high water use efficiency. It has 4-6% crude protein in roots and 12-14% in fresh leaves. Fodder beet Moringa: Moringa (Moringa oleifera), popularly known as drumstick, sahjan, and munga is a multipurpose tree cultivated for food, medicinal, industrial and fodder purposes. It is a perennial tree and has a potential to provide ‘round the year’ high quality green fodder up to 70-100 t/hectare in 4 to 5 cuttings. Moringa fodder is a rich source of nutrients for dairy animals. It is a fast-growing deep-rooted plant tolerant to drought conditions. It is highly nutritious, palatable potential fodder resource. Other than protein (approx. 16-20%) and minerals, it is a good source of vitamins. Sugarcane top: Sugarcane top is generally known to be a major by-product of the sugarcane crop. It consists of 3 distinct parts – the green leaves (blades), the bundle leaf sheath and variable amounts of immature cane. It is widely fed to livestock in sugarcane growing areas. It is rich in energy and low in CP content. Hydroponics fodder production: In view of seasonal and regional imbalances in fodder in the country, hydroponics as a soil-less fodder production technique is increasingly getting popular. It can provide fodder round the year and the fresh fodder is highly succulent and relished by the animals. Within 11-13 days, the nutritious fodder is ready which is rich in carbohydrates, minerals, and vitamins. The system is highly water efficient and can provide round the year green fodder. In a trial conducted at three locations, a seed density of 300g/sq. ft. was better and it produced 4.2-5.8 kg green weight containing 8-7-9% dry matter with 1-15% crude protein. SUMMARY Forage crops are essential for livestock growth, health and productivity. These crops are flexible in growing period which enables these to fit in most of the rainfed production systems. The fodder crops are characterized by short growth period, adjustable crop duration, grown in closer spacing, high persistency and regeneration capacity with multicity nature and wider adaptability with capacity to grow under stress conditions. In association of perennial grasses and legume bushes, high yielding perennial grasses with fodder bushes are grown which provide 4-6 cuttings of nutritious fodder. The crop management practices vary to great extent under different growing conditions and agro-climatic situation which is very clearly reflected in the productivity too. The productivity of grasses is often high under warm and humid climate, whereas sub-tropical climate with chilling winter is suitable for oat berseem and rye grass.