 It is applied to the crops at an interval of 12 days, and is found to be effective in controlling insect pests in vegetable crops as well. Keywords: kanvali, arali, dhatura, tobacco, pest control, vegetable crop Cuscuta is a parasitic plant growing on fruit plants and garden plants, taking food from these plants and lowering their yield. One can see no herbs or grass near the jackfruit trees (Aitocarpus heterophyllus). Farmers of Bowaigarh subdivision of Orissa take out leaf extract of jackfruit trees and spray on Cuscuta plants. It is found that after spraying the jackfruit leaf extract 3-5 times, the Cuscuta, gets destroyed. Farmers also collect dry leaves of jackfruit trees and spread on the paddy field in summer season. Farmers cultivate the soil in rainy season along with these leaves. Leaves of jackfruit trees thus show two-fold action: (i) they get decomposed and serve as compost; and (ii) their herbicidal action remains which control grass and other unwanted herbs in the paddy field. Keywords: jackfruit, herbicide, Cuscuta, compost Shri P. D. Uplenchwar has a formulation to control pests in crop plants. In this practice, an extract is prepared by using garlic (Allium sativum), chilli (Capsicum annuum), tobacco {Nicotiana tabacum), ginger (Zingiber oficinale) and asafoetida and little amount of cow urine to it. Shri Lingaraj Pradhan, Jakeikal. Bowaigarh. Sundargarh (Orissa) Shri P. D. Uplenchwar, 'Vichardhan" at Harsul. Digras, dist. Yavatmal (Maharashtra) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator Asafoetida is added for improving the fruiting and cow urine for controlling leaf-curl virus disease. About 500 ml of this liquid is mixed with 15 litres water and sprayed on the affected crop. Keywords: pest control, cotton, pigeonpea, soybean, garlic, chillies, tobacco, ginger, asafoetida Content Soil Fertility Management Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2903 Maintenance of fertility status of soil by using rice husk with poultry manure, cowdung and house ash in ginger and turmeric crops 2904 Use of pond soil to increase fertility of fields A village common small pond from where soil is used by villagers Farmers of village Khurai, Nandeibum Leikai, Imphal, East Manipur do mixed farming by rearing cattle, piggery and poultry in addition to raising the crops. Since this area has rice-based agro-ecosystem, rice husk is available in abundance. Rice husk is mixed with excreta of poultry birds, catties, pigs and house ash. Afterwards this mixture is spread over the fields of ginger and turmeric (after sowing and before 2-leaf stage of the crop). Yield of ginger and turmeric is increased up to 25-30% after application of this mixture.