 It can be 10-15% higher yield through sowing bi-directional method. Seed treated with @ 01 gm Vitavax per kg of seed to ensure freedom from smut. Apply 10-ton farmyard manure or compost per acre 15 days before the sowing with 25 kg urea at sowing time and 25 kg urea 25-30 days after sowing. In the absence of FYM, it requires 110 kg urea and 8 kg P2 O5 (50 kg single Superphosphate or 50 kg DAP) per acre. Three to four irrigations including the pre-sowing irrigation are sufficient. First irrigation should be given 25-30 days after sowing and subsequent irrigations at an interval of 30-35 days. In case multicut management irrigation ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 133 should be given after each cutting. Control of weed, application of pre-emer. linuron or post emergence of 0.2 kg 2,4-D per acre. The harvesting of oats from boot to milk stage. First cutting should be done 55-65 days after sowing leaving a suitable height of 3-4 inch and subsequent cuttings at 45-50 days interval. For seed production, crop sown before 15 November and left after first cutting at 55-65 days after sowing. Apply an additional dose of 12 kg N (33 kg urea) per acre after sprouting. This crop gives about 6 quintals of seed besides 100 quintals per acre of green fodder. Livestock management During rabi season the weather gets cold, so we should make proper arrangements to protect our animals from the cold stress so that they do not suffer from any problem (respiratory problems) and also continue to produce. Dairy Animals Feed more roughages (like hay, straws, etc.) or forages (berseem) to maintain the milk production and body heat of the dairy animals. 25-30 kg of leguminous fodder like berseem with 10 kg straw need for large animal producing 10 liters of milk. Additional 3 kg concentrates in the form of grains like maize, wheat, oats etc. and oil cakes can meet the requirements of large animal for maintaining body temperature. If the grains are costly or not available, then the use of oil cakes such as mustard oil cake, cotton seed cake, etc. can be feed in recommended dose. Hypothermia is a major risk for neonatal calves, and housing, feeding, and hydration are key considerations for minimizing hypothermia. To avoid Pneumonia and Hypothermia like condition, keep animals indoor but take care of the ventilation. In case of loose house, use curtains (tarpaulin, bamboo, dry grass, paddy straw, ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 134 jute bags, guinea bags, jute, etc.) around the animal house. Sunlight will not only warm the animal house but also disinfect it at the same time. The water should not be frozen in any case. Too cold or too hot water is detrimental for ruminal microflora. Supplied water should be heated to 10⁰ C to ensure proper water intake. Adult animals as well as young stock should be provided with protective clothing (gunny bags, sacks, blankets, etc.) to prevent heat loss from the body.