 National Fisheries Genetic Second Prize Resource Bureau, Lucknow III Institutes/Centres of ‘C’ Region 1. Central Marine fisheries Research First Prize Institute, Cochin 2. Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Second Prize Coimbatore cash awards for doing their maximum work in Hindi during the year 2020-21. Three more award schemes are being implemented by the Council at its own level; which are as follows. Rajarshi Tandon Rajbhasha Puraskar Yojana: Under this scheme, Institutes falling under ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’ linguistic region are awarded region-wise in different categories for excellent implementation of official language. During the year 2018-19 the following Institutes were awarded for doing their maximum work in Hindi: Name of selected Name of the Award magazine Institute For A & B region Institutes Ikshu Indian Sugarcane First Research Institute, Lucknow Him Jyoti Cold Water Fisheries Second Research Institute, Bhimtal Shalihotra Darshan Indian Veterinery Third Research Institute, Izzatnagar Institutes of ‘C’ Region Matsyagendha Central Marine First Fisheries Research Institute, Cochin Resha Kiran Central Jute and Second Allied Fibre Research Institute, Kolkata Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Hindi Patrika Puraskar Yojana: This scheme is applicable for the Official Language Magazines being published by various Institutes. Under this Scheme, awards are given for best magazines in two categories, i.e. one is for the Institutes located in A and B regions and other one is for the Institutes located in ‘C’ region. During the year 2019-20, the Magazines of the following Institutes were awarded. Details are as under: Apart from the above, the following magazines were selected for consolation prizes for their appreciable publication. Name of selected Name of the Award magazine Institute For A & B region Institutes Soyvrutika Indian Institute First of Soybean Research, Indore Laksha Indian Institute of Second Natural Resins and Gums, Ranchi Sabzikiran Indian Institute of Third Vegetable Research, Varanasi Name of the Institute (for ‘C’ Region) Neelanjali Central Inland First Fisheries Research Institute, Kolkata Dr. Rajendra Prasad Puraskar Yojana: Dr. Rajendra Prasad Puraskar Yojna is being implemented for encouraging to write book originally in Hindi. For the year 2020-21, following books received the award: 1. Pashuon evam Pakshiyon ke Mahatvapurna Rog evam Tikakaran 2. Fasal Jaiey Samvardhan evam Poshan Suraksha In accordance with the instructions/orders of Official Language Department, Ministry of Home Affairs, a total of 19 Institutes were inspected for assessing the progress of Hindi during the period under report and suggestions were given to rectify the shortcomings observed during the inspection. This also includes inspections of Parliamentary Committee on Official Language.