 Oei trees are grown in equal spacing to provide shade to newly grown tender plants and leaves of the crop as the newly grown tender plants and leaves show optimum growth at a temperature of 23-26 ºC. This ITK is used throughout tree growing area in Kangra valley of Himachal Pradesh. Keywords: Albizzia chinensis, tea Shri Bovinder Chand Katoch Research Fellow, Department of Biosciences, Himachal Pradesh University Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 2357 Use of edible oil for seed treatment Some indigenous practices of seed treatment have proved very fruitful to the farmers since long. Among such practices, one popularly prevalent method in use is the treatment of seeds with edible oil. Under this practice, seed is soaked with edible oil before sowing. Oil acts as a barrier and prevents attack from lower organism such as fungi and bacteria, as it cannot be easily weathered and degraded by such organisms. The practice of treating seed with edible oil is being popularly adopted by the farmers in Jammu division of Jammu and Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricul tural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documenta tion and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences &  Kashmir. Keywords: edible oil, seed treatment, fungi and bacteria Technology, Jammu 2359 Seed treatment with ash and cow dung Crops suffer a greater amount of loss due to seed borne diseases and infestation of insect pest. Treating the seeds before it is sown with a mixture of ash and cow dung effectively prevents the attack by pests and diseases. Ash acts as a mechanical barrier to pests and pathogens. This also helps to reduce the moisture present in seed by absorbing it. The technique is extensively prevalent in whole of the Jammu and around the Jammu region of Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: seed treatment, seed borne disease, ash and cow dung mixture, mechnical barrier Communicated by: Dr M. D. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 2303 Control of flower shedding in chilli and pigeonpea by using whey solution Farmers of Taloda and Akkalduwa tehsils of Nandurbar district use a mixture of 10 litres whey, 10 litres water and 1 kg urea to control sheding of flowers in chickpea and pigeonpea. The solution is stirred well and sprayed at an interval of 20 days, 2-3 times which, prevents flower shedding. Keywords: flower shedding, chilli, pigeonpea, whey, urea Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Control of doob grass (Cynodon dactylon ) by growing rajgira (a minor millet) in infested field For control of doob grass (Cynodon dactylon) farmers of Miraj, Tasgaon tehsils of Sangli district and middle portion of Ahmednagar district use deep ploughing.