31 The effect sizes that I find are generally larger than effect sizes found in other recent micro studies on technology adoption in agriculture, which have largely focused on short-run impacts. For example, Duflo et al. (2011) find a 47–70 percent increase in fertilizer adoption among Kenyan farmers offered free fertilizer delivery early in the season; Cole et al. (2017) find a 12 percent increase in planting of higher-return, higher-risk cash crops among Indian farmers several months after they are provided with rainfall insurance; and Emerick et al. (2016) find that farmers in rural Odisha who received flood-tolerant rice varieties mod- ernize their agricultural production practices a year later — their plots are 14 percent less likely to be cultivated with traditional varieties, and farmers are 22 percent less likely to use the broadcasting method of planting. Relative to these papers, I estimate medium-run impacts. I observe households several years after program roads are built in their villages — the median length of time between the construction of program roads in treated villages and the 2006 REDS round is 4 years. The larger effect sizes I find could potentially be explained by differences in the length of time that has elapsed between the intervention and time of survey. Further, while the effect sizes I find are large, it is important to highlight that the cost of the road-building intervention is very high.32 The large effect sizes could thus also be explained by the sheer scale of the road-building intervention, relative to some of these other micro studies. A comparable study in terms of scale evaluates the impact of construction of footbridges in rural villages in Nicaragua; they find that footbridges led to a 60 percent increase in expenditure on farm 31 In Appendix Table B11, I report 𝛿1 and 𝛿2 from the pooled regression in Eq. (8) for the series of agricultural outcomes described above. Recall that 𝛿1 + 𝛿2 captures treatment effects of access to improved road infrastructure for households that are in close proximity to towns — in the table, I report p- values from a test of joint significance of the two coefficients. I find a reduction in non-cereal cultivation, an increase in family labor use and a reduction in crop sales for households in villages that are in close proximity to the non-agricultural sector. Given that I find substantial exit from agriculture in these villages, these reduced-form results capture the impacts of improvements in road infrastructure as well as of potential changes in the composition of households who remain in agriculture. 32 The average per kilometer cost of road construction under the program is estimated to be US$43,300. (Source: PMGSY Online Management & Monitoring System) inputs (Brooks and Donovan, 2020). My findings suggest that there is scope for infrastructure investments to meaningfully transform remote, agrarian economies and influence technology adoption on a very large scale. 6.4.