0 cm long, nearly glabrous, ovoid or ovoid-oblong, with 5-7 hard, winged angles. The tree is common throughout the greater part of the Indian peninsula along rivers, streams, ravines and dry water courses, reaching large size on fertile, alluvial loam. It is rare in the Karnataka, but is fairly plentiful in Tirunelveli and on West Coast. It extends northwards to the sub-Himalayan tract, where it is distributed along the banks of streams; in Punjab, it is a cultivated tree. It is common in Chotanagpur, Orissa and in the northern Circars. Jamun: A large, evergreen tree, attaining 30 m height and 3.6 m girth, with a bole up to 15 m, found throughout India up to an altitude of 1,800 m. Bark brown or greyish, fairly smooth, up to 2.5 cm. Thick, with shallow depressions, exfoliating in woody scales; leaves lanceolate, elliptic- Habit Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT oblong or broadly ovate-elliptic, 7.5-15.0 cm x 3.8-6.8 cm, coriaceous, gland-dotted, smooth and shiny; flowers greenish white, fragrant in trichotomous panicles; fruits ellipsoid or oblong, up to 2.5 cm. Long, black with pinkish juicy pulp; seeds single; shaped like the fruit, 1-2 cm long, or 2 to 5 seeds compressed together into a mass resembling a single seed, the whole enclosed in a coriaceous covering. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 1385 Crop protection by ploughing and planking by weed of kendu etc. Volume 2, page 154 Kendu, ashan or parasi Gujarati: amrug; Hindi: tendu, timburni; Kannada: abanasi, bale, tumari; Malayalam: kari; Marathi: tendu, tumri; Sanskrit: dirghapatraka; Tamil: karai, karundumbi, tumbi; Telugu: mancigata, nallatumki, tumki; Oriya: kendu. Coromandel ebony persimmon Diospyros melanoxylon Roxb. The fruits are carminative and astringent. The leaves are diuretic, carminative, laxative and styptic. Dried flowers are reported to be useful in urinary, skin and blood diseases. The bark is astringent and its decoction is used in diarrhoea and dyspepsia. The dilute extract is used as an astringent lotion for the eyes. A moderate-sized to large tree, attaining a height of 60-80 ft and a girth up to 7 ft, with a straight cylindrical bole of 15- 20 ft under favourable conditions. It bears coriaceous leaves, varying in size and form. It is distributed in the Indian peninsula, extending northward to Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, and Maharashtra, and is one of the most characteristic trees of the dry, mixed, deciduous forests in these regions. Habit Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1392 Use of sindwar (Vitex negundo) in control of aphids in pumpkin, bottlegourd, beans etc. Volume 2, page 154 Sindwar Refer to ITK Code No.