 Field Day on Mechnical Transplanting of Paddy in Sangrur, Punjab Indian Agriculture after Independence 338 2.1.4. National Extension Service (NES) The National Extension Service was inaugurated on 2nd October 1953. The scheme of National Extension Service was designed to provide the essential basic staff and a small fund for the people to start the development work essentially on the basis of self-help. The operational unit of this service was an N.E.S. block comprising about 100 villages and 60,000 to 70,000 people. The N.E.S. blocks were later converted into community development blocks which had higher budget provisions in order to take up more intensive development programmes. The pattern of community development programme was further revised (modified with effect from 1st April 1958). 2.1.5. National demonstration A nationwide programme of demonstrations, known as National Demonstration on major food crops was launched in 1964. It was a nationwide project with a uniform design and pattern. There was a specific yield target and there was no separate control plot. The area of the demonstration plot was about one hectare. The farmers in whose plots the demonstrations were laid out were the actual cultivators with small holdings. The agricultural scientists conducted these demonstrations in association with local extension agencies/workers. The national demonstrations were intended to show the superiority of the demonstrations to the extension agencies. 2.1.6. High Yielding Variety Programme (HYVP) The HYVP was launched in 1966 as an integrated programme to introduce the high yielding crop varieties and promote the modern agricultural inputs like fertilizers, irrigation, plant protection, improved implements, etc. This aimed at attaining self-sufficiency in food production. The HYVP proved pivotal to realise the ‘Green Revolution’ in the country. As the programme created demand for the new varieties, the agricultural scientists successfully evolved new high yielding varieties in cereals particularly in wheat, rice and maize. The part of Indo-Gangetic Plain, in the States of Punjab, Haryana and UP (western part) were the original area where this programme got implemented initially. The pervasive influence of high yielding technology spread to other area as of farm production such as animal production, fishery, sericulture, social forestry etc. 2.2. Era of food sufficiency (1975-2000) Post Green Revolution, the period between 1975 to 2000 saw adequacy of staple food grains and food security ensured barring deficiency of few commodities. However, some glaring problems cropped up. The most serious was depleting natural resources and declining factor productivity. The sustainability issues caught the eyes of all concerned and demand for food security along with focus on input use efficiency, land and labour productivity as well as their use optimization escalated.