 The award also carries one-month foreign training/study tour for the Chief Scientist-cum-Head who has spent five years period under consideration in the KVK chosen for the award. The entire funding shall be provided by ICAR. The remaining ` 80,000 would be equally divided among subject Matter Specialists and Programme Assistant and other staff of the KVK. 5. Frequency: Once in a year 6. Eligibility National: All KVKs in the country who have been selected for zonal level awards for the current and two preceding years are eligible. 176 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK Zonal KVK: A KVK existing for at least five years and a KVK winning the award will be eligible to apply again after the lapse of 10 years for zonal awards. Administration of the award National: There will be a Judging Committee consisting of 3-5 members, including the chairperson, and appointed by the Director General, ICAR. The Committee will evaluate the nominations among zonal KVK awardees and make recommendations to the Council. Zonal KVKs would be selected in a zone by the judging committee first. 7. Evaluation Criteria The KVK will be judged on the basis of work done during the five years preceding the year of the award according to the following criteria: (i) The organizational and functional development. (ii) Output and outcome of each mandated activity. (iii) The nature and quality of interaction with different stake holders (iv) The nature and quality of interaction with the relevant line departments of the State Government in the implementation of its programmes of activities. (v) The socio-economic impact of the various programmes of activities of the KVK (vi) long term trainings (one month and long duration) organized indicating number of farmers (Gender/SC/ST/OBC etc) benefitted. (vii) Publications (viii) Productivity and profitability enhancement of FLD farmers(with documentary evidence) (ix) Livelihood security of the farmers (x) Creation of job opportunities. (xi) Skill development of farmers. (xii) Entrepreneurship development (xiii) Success Stories documented (xiv) Revolving fund generated (xv) External funding raised. (xvi) Innovations introduced in programme execution. 8. Procedure Applications for the award will be invited during September/October of the year of the award. Application made in the prescribed form, obtainable from the Award Cell, will be accepted up to the end of October/November of the year of the award. The Judging Committee will screen the applications, identify outstanding entries, and make recommendations to the Council along with the draft citations. If no outstanding entries have been received, no award will be awarded. 9. Presentation The presentation of award will be made during the Annual National Conference on KVKs – which will be organized by the AED of the ICAR. 177 Appendices APPENDIX XXV Krishi Vigyan Kendra Award (National/Zonal): Application Form 1.