 Some Chinese medicines with its oil are used in headaches, cold, nausea, diarrhoea and abdominal pain. Patchouli oil is a vital ingredient and used as a ‘base’ material in perfumery business. There is no other substitute for patchouli oil, which increase its worth and in demand within the perfumery market. Consumption of patchouli oil within the world is approximate at 2000 t each year. The present consumption of patchouli oil in the world is about 800-1000 metric tonnes per annum. In India, consumption has gone up to regarding 300 tonnes each year whereas the production is below 50 tonnes. Hence, the country principally depends on imports primarily from other countries like Indonesia. India has a vast scope to enter the world market. Improved varieties There are some important varieties which are developed and recommended by CIMAP, Lucknow. 1. CIM-Samarth: It is fast growing variety, can be grown in shady as well as open field. It is tolerant to several diseases. 2. CIM-Utkrisht: It is a new developed variety of patchouli. Production potential of this variety is more than CIM-Samarth. It’s cultivation can be done in shady area as well as in open field without much effort. Soil requirement For patchouli crop, the soil should be medium type, loamy and fine texture. Soil should be in well drained condition. Water logged soil should be avoided due to more nematode attack problem and root rot disease. It is a partial shade loving plant so can be easily grow in partial shady areas as well as an intercrop or main crop. March–April 2021 27 Climate It grows well under humid condition of 70-75% humidity. Generally, coastal areas are more suitable for this crop. Beside this plenty of sunlight is required. For good growth of the crop, temperature should be in between 25 to 30°C, it is an ideal temperature for it’s growth. The crop can be successfully grown in fairly heavy and evenly distributed rainfall form 150-300 cm per annum. Field preparation Two deep ploughings are recommended to make soil fine texture for good crop establishment. Level the field properly so that water logged condition should not be there and another advantage of land leveling is that it helps in saving of water by uniform distribution of water in the field whenever irrigation is applied. Propagation It is usually propagated by rooted cuttings grown in the nursery. Patchouli cuttings are made from healthy main stem of 10-12 cm length with 3-4 nodes. Leaves should be removed. These cuttings are planted in the nursery in the month of April-May. Cuttings can be grown in soil as well as in poly bags. Soil of polybag or in nursery area; it should be well mixed with FYM. Fillings in the polybag should be prepared in the ratio of 1:1 (one part of soil and one part of FYM).