 On top of this layer again another layer of leaves of about four inches thickness will be spread. Once in two to three weeks the storage will be checked for infestation by any of the pests. By this method farmers are able to store potatoes at least for a period of 2-3 months. Further, to prevent the attack of any rats and rodents, farmers found Calotropis gigantea to be effective. Around the heap of potato storage, leaves and branches of Calotropis are spread to prevent the attack of rats. This method is found to be so effective that farmers say even during the hot mid afternoon times, the stores potatoes will be cool in between leaf layers (Bangalore, Karnataka). Hannganahalli (1999) 6 Dodi leaves for grain storage Storing grains for a long period of time has always proved tedious for the farmers. Dried leaves of 'meethi dodi' (Leptadenia reticulata) are used for this purpose. The grains are filled into container layered with these sun-dried leaves. The leaves make the container air-tight. The grains can be stored thus for over a year (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Bhagora (1999) 7 Storage of sorghum, sunflower and cumbu for seed purpose by hanging Sorghum, sunflower and cumbu are preserved byhanging the earheads in the kitchen (Tamil Nadu). Parvathi et al. (2000) 8 Storage of grains by using medicinal plants Plant species that are used in Jabalpur for storage of grains are Azadirachta indica, Allium cepa, Calamus spp., Anona squamosa, Syzygium aromaticum, Ricinus communis, Curcuma longa, Trigonella phoim, Ferula asafoetida and Arachis hypogoea. Thakur et al. (2002) 149 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 9 Storage pest control in paddy by using red chilli Keeping of 10-15 red chilli fruits in one quintal rice bag prevents storage pests because of pungency. Mixing crushed leaves of lakke pungency. Mixing crushed leaves of lakke fermented in cow urine for a day and its extractsact as disinfectant and insect repellent, thus spraying on grains controls pests and diseases (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 10 Pest control methods of pulses and millets with different materials To protect the stored grain from pests, any one of the following materials are mixed with the stored produce: ash, soap nut powder, nochi leaves, pungam leaves, neem leaves (Tamil Nadu). Parvathi et al. (2000) 11 Grain storage in bamboo made structure-Peru Grains of maize, wheat and paddy are stored in special structures made of bamboo called ‘peri’ or ‘peru’. Prior to use, these structures are plastered on inside with a mixture of cowdung and clay. These containers are placed on the ground floor and grain are loaded into them from a hole made on the roof of the first floor called ‘Baurh’. To take out grains an opening is provided near the bottom of each ‘peri’. These containers are kept in a separate room called ‘overi’ and access to which is allowed by a few persons (Himachal Pradesh).