 This type of mechanism is gaining attention for efficient planting of seedlings and maintaining accuracy, precision and effectiveness in planting them with minimum human intervention. A robotic transplanter for plug seedlings is developed at CIAE Bhopal. Here, seedling pick-up is an important concept, where a single seedling is extracted automatically from the tray with the help of a pair of pins or forks, then discharged into the furrow and again retracted to its starting position. This type of mechanism uses computer graphics or machine vision system and end-effector mechanism for extracting the seedling; gripper and a manipulator; indexing drum- type seedling removal device with ejector, or a pick-up system, planting system and feeding system. the transplanters developed in India ranges from 0.08–0.17 ha/h for tomato, brinjal and chilli crop at a forward speed of 1.0–1.2 km/h, respectively. The semi-automatic transplanters require significant hand labour to feed the seedlings and operate. Saving in labour in the range of 70–93% has been reported for the tractor operated 2-row semi- automatic vegetable transplanters (SVTs) in India. The labour requirement for transplanting seedlings by manual method is reported to range 229–300 man-h/ha for tomato, chilli, brinjal, cabbaage and cauliflower seedlings. Furrow openers The most commonly used furrow openers for mechanical transplanters are the shoe-type, runner-type and reversible shovel-type. Shoe-type furrow opener has been used in transplanting thin seedlings like onion, whereas shovel-type have been mostly adopted in vegetable transplanters developed in India across different soil types. Most of these have a widened boot to allow passage of vegetable seedling and are tailored to match the shapes of plug seedling cell. Soil covering and compaction devices Vegetable seedling needs immediate soil covering and compaction after transplanting. The size of furrow closing cum compaction mechanism should allow narrow row transplanting. The main function is that it should cover the roots of the seedlings with soil completely, and subsequently compact the soil around the seedling without damaging its leaves, stem and roots. Press wheel is most commonly used soil covering and compaction device for vegetable transplants. Economic benefits Major reason of the high cost of operation in semi-automatic transplanters is due to use of prime mover as well as skill labour for feeding the seedling into the delivery unit, which increases the cost of operation significantly. Moreover, most of the time self-propelled/ engine equipped transplanters may be the good option for transplanting. The major economic benefits are given below: • Higher field capacity obtained with increased transplanting rates per person was achieved as compared to conventional method. • Ensures timeliness of operation during peak season when manual labour is hard to acquire.