 Bedding, potted plants and container gardening Bedding, potted, and container plants are commonly used to add vibrant colour and life to balconies, outdoor spaces, and patios. Typically, annuals or tender perennials are used as bedding plants and are planted in mass March–April 2024 33 displays. Potted plants offer flexibility and mobility to the gardeners for experimenting with different arrangements and combinations. Container gardening is suitable for gardens with limited space and useful for creating beautiful arrangements even without a traditional garden plot. Ixora malabarica (Dennst.) Mabb. Commonly known as Malabar Ixora, this is a member of the Rubiaceae family. The plant is endemic to Southern Western Ghats. It is a slender, erect shrub which grows to a height of 0.6-0.8 m. Leaves are thin and leathery. Flowers are born in corymb-like, lax, few- flowered cymes that are drooping. Flowers are of greenish- yellow colour nearly 1 cm across, petals curled and recurved. Flowering is seen in October and fruiting in March. Fruits are berries, 1cm across, subglobose. This is a vulnerable plant and conservation is of utmost importance. The plant is suitable as a bedding plant under intense shade or partial shade. Also suitable for container gardening in the shade. The plant is propagated through seeds and root suckers. Pseuderanthemum malabaricum (C.B. Clarke) Gamble Malabar False Eranthemum is the common name of this plant, belonging to the Acanthaceae family. The plant is distributed in peninsular India and Sri Lanka. It is a sub-shrub growing to 0.4- 0.75 m height. Flowers are born in spikes of 20-25 cm length. Flowers are of size 3.2 × 1.6 cm. Flowers are white having purple dots. Flowering season starts from November to January. The plant is suitable for bedding under intense shade or partial shade; also suitable for container gardening in shade. The plant is propagated by cuttings. Tephrosia tinctoria Pers Commonly known as Orange Tephrosia, the plant is a member of the family Fabaceae and is distributed in Peninsular India and Sri Lanka. Erect sub-shrub, naturally seen under partial shade. Leaves are pinnate with 3-5 leaflets. Leaves are glabrous and densely white tomentose beneath. Inflorescence is axillary raceme. Flowers are of size 1.5 × 1.0 cm and orange colour. Flowering starts in September. This plant is suitable for bedding in partial shade. The plant is seed propagated. Exacum bicolor Roxb Commonly known as Country Kreat, this is a member of the family Gentianaceae. It is distributed in Peninsular India. The plant is a herbaceous perennial, each year sprouting from the tuberous roots during S-W monsoon. The plant grows to a height of 0.4- 0.6 cm. The stem is sturdy, thick and quadrangular. Leaves are dark green, thick and leathery. The inflorescence is a dichasial cyme, with 50-250 flowers. In the habitat, flowering starts during August and fruiting in December.