 In each district two FGDs were conducted, one with women and another with men (spouses of women participants or adult male agricultural decision maker from the women participant’s household). In four dis­ tricts, an additional FGD was conducted with women to capture het­ erogeneity in major crops and in the district’s caste composition. No more than two members from a village were invited for the FGD, allowing us to cover multiple villages and crops and providing hetero­ geneity in responses. To facilitate uninhibited discussion, we ensured homogeneity in social backgrounds to the extent possible. Participants (and their spouses) were invited by SEWA to participate in the FGD on a predetermined day at the SEWA district center, and the FGDs for men and women took place sequentially. Each FGD took around 140 min, and the average group size was 13 for women and 9 for men. The discussions followed a semi-structured format. The discussions were recorded after seeking participants’ consent and transcribed by the facilitators. The facilitators were also supported by the research team in cleaning, transcribing, and translating the FGD data. Thereafter, the research team undertook the qualitative data analysis based on the transcripts from each FGD using a thematic analysis approach. For this, initial codes were generated. Based on these codes, 2 According to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Human Development Index is a summary measure of average achievement in key di­ mensions of human development- a long and healthy life, being knowledgeable and having a decent standard of living. The HDI is the geometric mean of normalized indices for each of the three dimensions. The ranking provided in the paper is based on the method used by UNDP, however, it is to be noted that other sources report different HDI rankings that are usually higher than the ones calculated by UNDP. 3 Self-Employed Women’s Association (SEWA), is a large trade union, rep­ resenting 2 million members. SEWA members are organized as part of small groups at the village level, each affiliated with SEWA subdistrict-level service centers. While SEWA members are engaged in a variety of livelihood activities, our study included only those engaged in agriculture and related activities and living in rural areas. P. Barooah et al. Agricultural Systems 212 (2023) 103751 4 three broad themes were identified based on the preestablished study questions as well as inductive reasoning: (a) women and men’s liveli­ hood activities and their roles in agriculture; (b) experiences and in­ dicators of climate change and adaptive strategies; and (c) sources of agriculture and livelihood information. Thereafter, the data were ar­ ranged in a matrix to review the themes and identify new themes and interrelationships. These data were then analyzed, to generate comprehensive insights which were further validated in consultation with the partners.