 An outlet chute has been provided at the side for dried skin and other impurities of onion to escape. Collecting tray is provided at the bottom front end of the equipment for collecting the cleaned onions. The capacity of the cleaner is 800 kg/h. The operating cost for cleaning was found to be ₹0.2/kg with 88% saving in labour cost. Popped makhana grading machine: A simple and compact grading machine was developed by ICAR- CIPHET, Ludhiana, Punjab for grading of popped makhana of three grades (12–15 mm, 15–19 mm and >19 mm diameters) and separate flattened makhana. The grader consists of 3 concentric perforated cylinders (rectangular slots of 18 mm × 55 mm, 15 mm × 55 mm and 12 mm × 55 mm in inner, middle and outer cylinder, respectively) of 1000 mm length made from food grade metal (SS304). A conical feeding trough is placed in the inner cylinder. All the cylinders are joined together to operate at same speed. The inner cylinder is mounted on a hollow shaft, which is rotated by belt pulley arrangement. Outlets for each grade of popped makhana are placed to collect the graded makhana. The grader separates flattened and un-popped makhana near the feeding end. A 1-hp electric motor and 2 unskilled persons are required to operate the machine. Tentative cost of the machine is ₹1.5 lakh with capacity of 200 kg popped makhana per hour. Near Infra-Red spectroscopy-based method for detection of pea flour adulteration in chickpea flour: To provide easy, fast and non-destructive method for detection of pea flour adulteration in besan, near infra-red spectroscopy (NIRS) model has been developed. Pea flour and besan samples are prepared in the laboratory and spiked samples of besan with pea flour (1– 90%, w/w) are prepared. Spectra of pure besan, pure pea flour and spiked samples of besan with pea flour have been acquired as the logarithm of reciprocal of reflectance (log 1/R) in the Visible-NIR wavelength range of 400 to 2,500 nm. Modified partial least square regression (MPLSR) method has been developed for quantification of pea flour in besan. The developed model showed coefficient of determination (RSQ) of 0.99, standard error of developed in collaboration with C-DAC, Kolkata for the real-time health monitoring of the onions, potatoes and tomatoes in storage. The system consists of 8 metal oxide semiconductor sensors (MOS), equipped as an array, signal conditioning system, amplifier, Analog - to - Digital Converter, 32-bit ARM processor - based board and other auxiliary accessories. The developed system has been tested at ICAR-CIAE, Bhopal. During test operation, the user needs to select the appropriate commodity on the touchscreen display and feed in the necessary information related to the test. After that, the system automatically activates the appropriate MOS sensors assigned for a particular crop.