 of pages : i-viii + 808 Price : ` 1500 Postage : ` 100 HANDBOOK OF AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING Agricultural Engineering interventions have led to significant improvement in agricultural productivity by timeliness of operations, reduction in drudgery, prevention of post-harvest losses and achieving higher cultivation intensity. Timely farm operations with efficient use of inputs, post-harvest processing and value addition to agricultural produce and conservation and sustainable use of natural resources are essential for ensuring higher returns to the cultivators. This is the maiden attempt of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research to publish the Handbook of Agricultural Engineering. The handbook comprises 50 chapters under four sections, namely Farm Machinery and Power, Soil and Water Engineering, Energy in Agriculture and Agro-Process Engineering. This publication would be useful to farmers, students, researchers, extension workers, policy makers, entrepreneurs and other stakeholders. For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 34 Fusarium dry rot Fusarium dry rot is an important post-harvest disease of potato tubers. It causes significant losses in storage and during transit of both seed and table potatoes. The initial symptoms on potato tubers appear as small brown lesions on surface. These lesions subsequently enlarge, appear dark, sunken and wrinkle producing white, pink, or blue pustules. In later stages, a cavity often develop in the centre of the concentric ring and whitish, pinkish or dark brown growth of fungal mycelium may become visible. Rotten tubers may shrivel and get mummified. As many as 13 species of Fusarium, viz. F. sulphureum (syn. F. sambucinum), F. coeruleum, F. oxysporum, F. avenaceum, F. culmorum, F. acuminatum, F. crookwellense, F. equiseti, F. graminearum, F. scirpi, F. semitectum, F. sporotrichioides and F. tricintum (Corda) Sacc. cause dry rot of potato. In India, at least 10 species of Fusarium have been reported to cause dry rot of potato in stores. Infected or rotting tubers are main source of spread of the inoculum of Fusarium spp. and results in soil infestation. The pathogen may also get introduced to new locations through contaminated soil, farm implements, through wind and irrigation water etc. The pathogen cannot infect intact periderm and lenticels of tubers however, cuts and wounds created during harvest, grading, transport and storage Management of soil and tuber borne diseases of potato Several soil and tuber borne diseases are known to affect potato and result in heavy losses. These diseases not only reduce quality and market value of the produce but also spread to new un-infested fields through infected seed potato tubers.