 Projects on perfection of technology for production of pregnant mare serum gonadotropin (PMSG) indigenously and development/standardization of pregnancy diagnostic kit are in operation at the NRCE, Hisar. Camel The reproductive efficiency of farm camel herd during regular breeding season indicated significant improvement of 10 to 12% in overall per cent conception due to adoption of improved research techniques. Cryopreservation of camel semen was done successfully by using programmable LN2 freezer. Tremendous variability was observed in freezability of semen from different males. Based on post-thaw Morphology of frozen thawed freshly collected goat oocytes Microphotograph of camel sperm is almost liquified coagulum DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 118 motility test, overall success rate of cryopreservation of semen was adjudged to be 44.26%. Sonographic monitoring of female camels for ovarian follicle was done and one female was successfully impregnated through artificial insemination using frozen thawed semen. Race-rest cycle was evaluated using biochemical markers in females of Bikaneri and Jaisalmeri breed. Average race speed of Jaisalmeri and Bikaneri females was recorded as 18±1.4 and 16±1.7 km/hr respectively. Cardinal responses after race indicated significant increase in pulse and respiration. Blood pO2, pCO2, glucose, cortisol and lactate significantly increased due to race stress. Jaisalmeri females revealed faster recovery of blood biochemicals towards normalcy as compared to Bikaneri female camels. Poultry The age of first egg was advanced with estradiol treatment. The egg laying was apparently high in 13 to 14 week treated group as compared to non-treated group. The frequency of double yolk eggs was more in 12 to 13 and 12 to 16 weeks treated group in first month of lay as compared to non-treated groups. The maturation of reproductive system could be modulated through estrogen treatment favourably at a critical pre puberty phase. MATURATION OF GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT IN BROILERS At an early age, the development rate of GIT is faster in birds particularly in broilers. A particular trend was observed in development of small intestine—the duodenum weight increased up to 11 days, jejunum up to 23 and ileum up to 32 days after hatch. This signifies that lower segment of small intestine takes longer time to get matured. Individual variations in development pattern of GIT in birds were also observed. Some nutrients/ electrolytes in solutions (glucose, oral dehydration solution RS and sodium bicarbonate) were also fed to broiler chicks at early age (up to 5 days age), but these solutions did not produce appreciable impact on preponing the maturation of GIT. However, glucose solution of 25% strength helped weak chicks in reducing their mortality rate and attaining comparable body weights at marketing age. T3 and T4 levels were noted higher in those birds that died during the summer as compared to those who survived.