 Unique accessions such as pea germplasm (IC220286) with waxiness, prolific maize accessions (KG/VK/SKT-222), pre-harvest sprouting tolerant blackgram accessions (IC485425 and IC250220), chilli accession (EC769427) with 12 flowers per inflorescence were identified. fungal pathogens of quarantine importance. Important interceptions included fungi (Fusarium graminearum, Phoma exigua, Tilletia barclayana), insects (Bruchus dentipes, Callosobruchus subinnotatus, Trogoderma variabile), six viruses and five noxious weeds which are not reported from India. In addition, a total of 2,685 samples were processed for export issuing 8 Phytosanitary Certificates. Likewise, at ICAR-NBPGR Regional Station, Hyderabad, a total of 89,401 samples (import and export) were processed for quarantine clearance and 34 phytosanitary certificates were issued. DNA fingerprinting Plant: During the period under report, 56 samples of agri-horticultural crops were DNA profiled from different public and private sector organizations, and generated resources to the tune of ₹3,36,300. GMO testing services were provided for 56 samples of 23 consignments of six crops (banana, maize, papaya, rice, soybean, tomato) and 10 species of ornamental plants and generated ₹4,00,560 for the service. Current status of National Genomic Resource Repository is 13,873 samples belonging to 46 species (as on September 30, 2023). A web server ‘Germplasm Duplicate Identification and Removal Tool’ (G-DIRT) has been developed to identify germplasm duplicates using SNP genotyping data which is accessible at http://webtools.nbpgr.ernet. in/gdirt/. Designed and validated genic and intergenic SNP-based 64K SNP chip for diversity study, molecular core development, association mapping, and molecular breeding in Amaranthus. The draft whole genome sequence of small cardamom (Eletaria cardamomum) has been de novo assembled and developed public database on information and utilization of SSR loci (‘cardamomSSRdb’). Developed and validated KASP markers associated with Spot Blotch resistance, QTLs identified through GWAS in bread wheat (Triticum aestivum). Visual and Real-time loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) based GM detection technology was developed for rapid on-site detection of Proteinase inhibitor (T-pinII) terminator sequence with limit of detection (LOD) up to 0.01%. A total 30 stable Quantitative Trait Nucleotides (QTNs) were identified for test seed weight (thousand seed weight) trait using Multi-locus Genome Wide Association Study (ML- GWAS) in a linseed core panel. Microbes: To ascertain the authenticity of biopesticides and to restrict the flow of spurious and Field view of wheat (A) and linseed (B) germplasm characterization at ICAR-NBPGR, Issapur Farm, New Delhi Mega germplasm characterization programme for sorghum germplasm accessions at Washim, Maharashtra Mega germplasm characterization programme for sorghum germplasm accessions conserved in National Genebank was undertaken.