 Thirty-seven trademark applications were filed by eight ICAR institutes for different products and processes. Till date a total of 168 trademark applications have been filed. This year, 325 partnership agreements were formed for Consultancy/ Contract Research and Service with 174 public and private organizations. Under the promotion quota following posts were filled up during this year, five Director/Joint Director cum Registrar, one Director (F)/Comptroller, one Deputy Director (F)/Chief Finance & Accounts Officer, three Deputy Secretary & three Chief Administrative Officer, eleven Senior Finance & Accounts Officer, three Under- Secretaries, five Senior Administrative Officer, three Deputy Director (OL), one Principle Private Secretary, ten Administrative Officer, nine Finance & Accounts Officer, three Section Officers and two Private Secretary. During the year, 69 eligible officers and staff of ICAR (Hqrs.) and Institutes were granted the benefits of financial up-gradation under the Modified Assured Career Progression scheme in accordance with the Government of India (Department of Personnel and Training) instructions in this regard. During the period under report, 4 ICAR Institutes/ Centres were notified in the Gazette under office Language Rule 10(4). Till date, 141 ICAR institutes/ centres have been notified. Four meetings of the Official Language Implementation Committee were organized. In most of the ICAR institutes/centres, the Official Language Implementation Committee was constituted, and their meetings were being conducted regularly. The quarterly progress report was sent online to the Regional Implementation office of Rajbhasha Department. The quarterly progress reports received from various institutes were reviewed and suggestions were given to them for effective implementation. In accordance with the instructions/orders of the official Language Department, Ministry of Home Affairs, a total of 11 institutes were inspected for assessing the progress of Hindi during the period under report and suggestions were given to rectify shortcomings observed during the inspection. Two meetings of Directors of ICAR institutes and ATARIs were held under the Chairmanship of Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR through Video Conferencing during COVID-19 period. It was emphasized to strictly follow lockdown guidelines, maintain hygiene, use of mask and social distancing under any circumstances. Besides these, various action points regarding the research protocols to be developed and observed were decided. It was decided to ensure the technology and input delivery among the farmers and other stakeholders using ICT and all other possible means were decided to minimize the impact of COVID-19 on farmers and the agricultural sector. The Umbrella Memorandum Understanding (UMoU) was signed between the ICAR and host Institutions, i.e.