 Water depth of the fish-pond starts reducing and biomass of the fish gradually increases from September to May. Hence during that period there is shortage of dissolved oxygen in the pond water. The pH of the water reduces gradually and due to unfavorable condition fish starts swimming on the upper surface of the pond water in early morning hours. If such conditions prevail for longer period, fish start dying. PRA and field study Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) tools Fig. 1. Cutting of banana pseudostem for application in fish pond were applied to evaluate the efficacy of banana pseudostem in fish pond for maintaining the quality of water as compared to lime treatment. Different parameters studied are were: growth of fish, fish yield per unit area, effectiveness in preventing fish mortality, effectiveness in preventing disease outbreak, cost effectiveness  FISHERIES Fig. 2. Application of banana pseudostem in fish pond and availability of the material. In this study 16 fish farmers practicing the ITK did the matrix scoring at village Basta. Experiment The experiment was conducted at village Basta, using following four treatments: (i) T1, control (no treatment); (ii) T2, use of banana pseudostem @ 2,000 kg/ha, here banana pseudostem were allowed to decompose and disintegrate in the pond (designated ITK-I); (iii) T3, use of banana pseudostem @ 2,000 kg/ha, here banana pseudostem was removed from the pond after 12_15 days of application (designated ITK- II); and (iv) T4, use of lime @ 5,000 kg/ha. Three replications were used for each treatments. Before initiation of the experiment, all ponds were treated with cowdung, urea and single superphosphate at equal doses. IMC fingerlings of 2_3 inches size were stocked @ 5,000/ha with species combination of Catla:Rohu:Mrigal = 4:3:3. Duration of experiment was for 10 months (September 2002 to June 2003). Observations were taken on: (a) water-quality parameters: pH of pond water, dissolved oxygen content (ppm), total alkalinity (ppm) and total hardness (ppm); (b) growth parameters of fish: growth of fish at harvest, yield of fish (kg/ha), survival percentage of fish and incidence of diseases in fish; (c) economic parameters: total expenditure, total income and benefit cost ratio, and (d) chemical characteristics of juice extracted from banana pseudostem. Collection of water sample The pond water was collected in pretreated polythene bottles taking precaution not to entrap any air bubbles while sampling. The samples were collected at monthly intervals in the early hours of the day. a. pH: It was measured at site by using pocket electronic pH-meter b. Dissolved oxygen: The following formula was used: Dissolved oxygen (ppm or mg/litre) = 0.1 × A × 1,000/ml sample where A=Volume of 0.0125 N sodium thiosulphate solution required up to end point c. Total alkalinity: It was calculated from the sum of bicarbonate and carbonate alkalinity. d.