 Indian Horticulture 36 Survey, collection, variability and uses of Madhuca longifolia (Mahua) fruits and flowers: (A) Natural wild population of Mahua in Gujarat; (B) Flowers being collected in early morning by tribal women; (C) Preparation of Mahua liquor using traditional methods from Mahua flowers by tribals of Madhya Pradesh; (D) Fruit variability collected from Madhya Pradesh; (E) Prolific bearing in heavy bunches of 25-35 fruits in genotype collected from Rajasthan; (F) Seed extraction from fruits by tribals for oil extraction. scented flowering commences. Fruits mature generally in the months of May-June. Tree blooms at night and in early morning hours flowers fall on the ground and are collected by local tribal populations for commercial use. In southern parts of India Madhuca longifolia var. latifolia occurs which is similar in the tree morphology to M. longifolia, with a exception in the shape of leaves which is linear lanceolate in M. longifolia var. latifolia and also flowering period varying between November-December. Ecology, diversity and distribution M. longifolia is predominantly distributed in northern and central states of India while M. longifolia var. latifolia is more common in southern states of India. Mahua grows A C E B D F January–February 2021 37 well on a wide range of soils especially on alluvial soil in Indo-gangetic plain. Mahua being hardy tree, thrives well on rocky, gravelly red soils and also on saline and sodic soils. Tree prefers tropical to sub-tropical climate and withstands drought admirably. It grows upto an altitude of 1,200 m, mean annual temperature 2-46°C and mean annual rainfall ranging from 550-1,500 mm. Some of the Madhuca species grow in Western Ghats and also found in Himalayan regions upto an altitude of 4,500 m. Uses and indigenous technical knowledge Every part of Mahua tree is used for economical and medicinal purposes by the local and tribal people. Their livelihood is based on the various tree parts and range of products developed from these which are collected directly from the forests and sold in local markets. Flowers of Mahua are of high economic value and collected fresh in the morning by tribal women. Mostly the dried flowers are used for distillation of Mahua liquor locally known as “Mahudi” which is a very common alcoholic drink in the tribal areas. For making liquor, flowers are fermented in the large sized earthen pots for months and fermented extract is distilled in locally developed distillation units known as “Bhattis”. Liquor is collected in small earthen pots for selling it to local people. Mahua flowers yield approximately 340 litres of alcohol per tonne of flowers. Marketing potential of its flowers, fruits, seeds, wood and other products have not been realized fully by industry. Till now tribals and local inhabitants are collecting the produce and either utilizing for traditional preparations or selling these to middleman.