 (a) (c) (b) NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 87 FARMING SYSTEM RESEARCH Evaluation of Rice-based System in Goa Among the 8 hybrids of rice evaluated during the kharif 2001, Sahyadri recorded the highest yield of 7.15 tonnes/ha and was closely followed by the hybrid KRH 2 which recorded a yield of 6.87 tonnes/ha. Both were significantly superior to the local check varieties Jaya and Jyothi which yielded 5.72 tonnes/ha and 4.68 tonnes/ ha, respectively. In trials under the rice-based farming system, it was observed that rotating groundnut with rice increased the grain yield of subsequent rice crop by over 5 tonnes/ha. Also rice grown under recycled paddy straw with mushroom substrate in 2 : 1 ratio consistently registered higher productivity (4.5 tonnes/ha). Among the different cropping systems tried, rice-brinjal system, registered the best productivity level particularly under recycled FYM. It was also observed that rice-cowpea system was the best option under residual moisture situation. Rice-cowpea rotation resulted in a 78% higher productivity over rice fallow system. Pooled economic analysis revealed that integration of rice-brinjal with mushroom and poultry was economical with the best net returns of Rs 77,305/ha. Performance of Plantation Crops In a high-density cropping model involving coconut (main crop), banana, mango and black pepper, an average yield of 77.86 nuts/palm/year was recorded in coconut (Benaulim). Amrapalli was found to perform well in this high-density cropping model registering an yield of 4.75 kg/plant. Post-harvest Technology of Fruits Studies on storage of jackfruit bulbs indicated that the ripe bulbs could be stored in refrigerator for 23 days when packed in polythene bags. Those stored in sugar solution (40° B) with potassium meta bisulphate (250 ppm SO2) or sodium benzoate (250 ppm) kept well for 4 months in polythene bags at room temperature. Matured, but unripe jackfruit bulbs could be stored for 12 months with their original colour and firm texture in brine solution at room temperature. Carambola (sweet type), squash (48° brix, 0.5% acidity and 250 ppm SO2) could be stored under ambient as well as refrigerated conditions for more than 12 months. Proximate analysis of nutmeg rind, parts of jackfruit and breadfruit revealed that these fruit wastes are rich sources of fat and fibre and can be incorporated in livestock feeds. AGROFORESTRY Genetic Improvement of Neem Genetic improvement work in neem (Azadirachta indica) was carried out at Jhansi. Two hundred sixty five accessions of neem were collected from 8 states. In provenances trial of 26, provenance Bhopal was identified as an outstanding for growth parameters. In plus tree progenies trial of neem, progenies PT 24 and PT 15 were performing well when compared to check. Ten selections were identified in provenances and plus tree progeny trial based on fast growth and high fruit yield. Out of these, Sel 1, Sel 3, Sel 4 and Sel 5 had more than 0.