 He was against of the celebration or feasting on different occasions like marriage, birth anniversaries etc. He took steps towards to remove all social and religious barriers to start widow remarriage. He realized that social institution and education play an important role in empowering women and bringing gender equality and equity in the society. Mahatma Gandhi is encouraged women’s active participation in the freedom struggle, which gave him identity of a great promoter of women’s liberation. Women’s participation in national politics through non-violent methods brought unbelievable changes in the past. They crossed the boundaries of their protected homes and joined in non-violence movement without any hesitation. These moments witnessed to observe the women empowerment, which started from home to country level. 3. Concept of Gender Empowerment The term empowerment has a meaning to enable gender especially women to obtain and acquire power and resources to participate in decision making to achieve their family goals. This can be achieved by giving equal rights and ownerships in assets and also giving equal opportunities for accessing the resources. Women’s participation in decision-making process and access to and control over resources are considered as the significant indicators in the development of gender empowerment. Women especially from rural background possess have lack of knowledge about their rights on the proportions of material resources and which show them as powerless and dependent on the powerful. Empowerment of women can be achieved by education and participation in different level of social institution play an important role. This should be accepted starting from the family members to the policy makers. 4. Role of Village Institutions in Gender Empowerment Role of social, political, religious and educational Institutions is very much important in gender empowerment. There were many social taboos, conservative mindsets and gender stereotypes role prevailing throughout the country. There are many social and economic institution supports for economic empowerment of women in particular exists at village level. According to Gandhiji, an ideal Indian village can be constructed with cottages having sufficient light, ventilation and sanitation facilities within reach of the people. There should be enough space for rearing domestic animals. There should be common meeting place, common grazing place for cattle, a co-operative dairy, primary and secondary schools in which people can access to basic facilities and have a village Panchayat for resolving their personal and social disputes. Villagers may able to produce their own food grains, vegetables and fruits and weave khadi 153 to fulfill amenities. This was the idea of a model village proposed by Gandhiji. Home is the primary social institution gives many lessons and moral values to prosper in the society.