 This may result in production of potatoes meeting export norms for table as well as processing potatoes. Growing processing sector: Out of the total potato production, about 8% is being utilized for processing in India. Since demand for processed potatoes is increasing faster than the fresh potatoes, there are opportunities for exporting frozen and processed products. Emergence of contract farming: With the popularization of contract farming, exporters can have the desired material as per their requirement exploiting the contract farming approach. Demand of fresh potatoes in northern hemisphere: When 90% of the fresh harvest is done during winters in the country, there is shortage of fresh potatoes in the Eastern Europe, North Africa and Middle East. This may serve as an opportunity for export of raw fresh potatoes to these zones. Growing demand for organic produce: Worldover, there is increasing demand for organically produced food including potatoes and India has the capability for producing organic potatoes, which can be exported in this sector. Popularity of Indian varieties in specific countries: Some of the Indian varieties are in demand in Afghanistan, Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Philippines, Madagascar, Mauritius, Bolivia and Vietnam. Such varieties may be promoted for exporting to these countries. Threats Climate change: Mostly potatoes are grown in sub- tropical climates in the country, with the expected change in climate particularly increase in temperature, potato production is expected to hamper badly. This may not result in availability of surplus potatoes for export. Worsening natural resources: Industrialization and real state growth is depleting the natural resources in form of cultivable land and water. With further development in these sectors, there will be shortage of farm area and irrigation water for raising potato crop. High post-harvest losses: At present, post-harvest losses to the tune of about 16% are faced in potato crop due to high moisture varieties and poor infrastructure for handling, transportation and storage. This may further aggravate on exporting potatoes to long distances. Indiscriminate use of chemicals: There is no check on the use of chemicals for disease and pest management, resulting in excessive use of pesticides and other agricultural chemicals while raising potato crop. Due to stringent quarantine requirements of the importing countries, the potato exports may not be acceptable by them. Aggressive trade policies of other exporters: In the present era of globalized economy, all countries are linked with each other and the world market is becoming highly Bags Chips Indian Horticulture 70 rot) needs to be identified and maintained for export purpose. R&D issue • Easy detection of quarantine diseases need to be developed scientifically as X-ray is being used for detection of spongy tissues in mango. Validation of X-ray facility for detection of brown rot should be taken up on urgent basis.