 Family Resource Management component has a project Characterization of drudgery of women in the production environment and assessment of technology packages in mitigating drudgery, in which drudgery of women was characterized for three crops and five production systems in the operational villages. Twelve technologies were refined / developed and tested. Seed cum fertilizer dibbler, rice picker, evaluation of sapling transplanter and flower harvest bag technologies were ergonomically evaluated after field interventions. Twenty-six technologies were up-scaled as per the need and for dissemination among SHG groups. In Food and Nutrition component, under the project Food and nutritional strategies to combat nutritional problems among farm families, socio-economic, nutritional, clinical, knowledge and anthropometric assessment of the adolescent girls was done. A total of 2,932 school going adolescent girls out of 5,069 were screened out with haemoglobin level less than 12g /dl in rural areas. Among all the 10 centres the mean energy intake for both control and experimental group was lowest for Rajasthan centre and highest in Karnataka centre, which meets only 40.87 and 35.90% and 93.58 and 101.55%, respectively, of the Recommended Dietary Allowances. Three protein rich recipes, viz. mix pulse shev, proteimix powder, peas stick and millet and moringa powder based value added products were developed and transferred into rural entrepreneurship. The Textile and Apparel Designing component has projects Functional clothing to combat occupational health hazards of farm workers and Utilization of plant sources for textile processing. Functional clothing kit was designed and assessed for its suitability and acceptability among workers at KVKs, Kisan Club, SAUs and EEU. Shopping bag, pen stand, purse, tea cozy, pot mat, coaster, file cover, seed pot etc. were prepared from bhindi fibre and non woven fabric. STATISTICS Knowledge management system for agriculture extension services in Indian NARES: The KVK Portal (http://kvk.icar.gov.in/) was developed which helps in online monitoring of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs)— reporting of major events on regular basis and submission of monthly reports online—besides providing information on different services being offered by a KVK. The forthcoming events are available on the website which will benefit farmers and rural youths in joining different training programmes at KVKs. Farmers’ query will be addressed by the scientists at KVKs through this portal. Agriculture contingency plan for all the districts of India are available online. Farmers, scientists of KVKs and ATARIs, agricultural officers may register themselves and seek information related to KVKs. The website had more than 1.5 lakh hits since its launch on 8 July 2016.