 Battery operated pruner for horticultural crops A battery operated pruner for horticultural crops was developed. The device is provided with telescopic pipe (145–400 cm) to reach the required height. The developed device was tested on ber, guava, wax apple and mango. The device could cut 11.25 mm thick twig of ber tree in 24.60 sec, 12.82 mm thick twig of guava tree in 45.15 sec, 11.64 mm thick twig of wax apple tree in 27.50 sec, and 14.38 mm thick twig of mango tree in 34.95 sec respectively. The cost of machine is ` 2,625 and cost of operation ` 39.48/h. Battery operated lightweight interculture tool/weeder A light weight battery operated two row weeder was developed for fields where heavy machinery can not enter in fields. The weight of machine is 35 kg. The testing was carried out in okra field. Average depth of operation, field capacity and weeding efficiency of the machine were 60 mm, MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 100 0.012 ha/h, and 84% at 0.45 km/h speed of operation, respectively. The estimated cost of machine is `21,000. Tractor operated horizontal shredder for orchards A tractor operated Phule horizontal shredder for grape vineyards/ orchards was developed. It is useful for shredding of pruned material in grape vineyard and orchards and spreading it evenly on the beds of orchard. The shredded material discharged on both sides. The effective field capacity of the machine was 0.47 ha/h. The net saving of money by using the machine over traditional method is `2,888/ha (72%). Tractor operated hydro-mechanically controlled offset orchard manager The tractor operated Phule hydro-mechanically controlled offset orchard manager was developed to break beds in between the inter spaces of adjacent trees in orchards besides cutting of old roots that help in new root formation and facilitate proper aeration to root zone of the trees. When sensor rod touches the trunk of tree, it retracts and after wrap up action around tree trunk, it is extended due to hydraulic relief valves. During this process cycle of retraction and extension, the rear mounted plough bottom breaks the bed between interspaces in adjacent trees facilitating aeration to the root zone as well as simultaneously cutting old roots for enhanced growth of trees with application of manure for soil enrichment. The effective field capacity of the machine was 0.127 ha/h. Net saving by using the machine over traditional method was worked out to be `3,910.00/ha (48%). Girdling tool for litchi tree In order to mechanize girdling, a selective wounding process that removes strips of bark of a litchi tree to increase fruit size and yield, a motorized girdling tool was developed. It mainly consists of a circular blade to cut the wood bark from the tree, safety cover to protect the operator from rotating blade, handle and a 12 V battery-operated motor.