 Controller flushes out the dirty materials from the filter after cleaning was performed. It was operated by a 1.50 kW centrifugal pump having a maximum flow rate of 20 m3/h. The flow rate decreased from 20 m3/h to 153 m/h with a pressure Fabrication of customized FRP-HDPE cages for open brackishwater fish farming Coastal brackishwater areas are environmentally dynamic and highly productive. To utilize the vast stretches of brackishwater resources along the India’s coasts for increased fish production as well as employment and income, ICAR-CIBA has initiated cage culture of mangrove red snapper (Lutjanusargenti maculatus) in Pulicat brackishwater lake. An indigenous low cost FRP-HDPE cage was fabricated and installed using single mooring. The total inner diameter of the cage is 6 m. The outer, inner collars and handrail are of HDPE, whereas the connecting stanchions are made of FRP filled with polyurethane foam (PUF). The PUF- filled FRP stanchions provided more load carrying and resistance to vertical pressure created by waves. The inner cage bag was fabricated using HDPE knotless net meshes with a total height of 3 m with 0.5 m outboard and 2.5 m carrying capacity. The total volume of cage was around 70 m3 with a holding and production capacity of 1.4 tonnes. The snapper juveniles (450 no. /cage) with a weight range between 60 and 120 g were collected from the wild and stocked. On an average, 55 g/month growth was observed for the fishes in two months. ❑ Mechanization and Energy Management icar annual report 2022-23 132 Post - harvest treatment machine for fruits and vegetables: Post-harvest treatments increase the shelf-life of the perishables. The machine can provide pre-cooling, washing, warm water treatment, anti-microbial treatment, anti-browning and pulsed light treatment to the freshly harvested fruits and vegetables. It also has an inspection conveyor to sort out the deformed and damaged products. This is an ergonomically designed single operator machine of size 4.4 × 1.0 × 1.6 m (length × width × height) and made of stainless (SS 304) steel. The capacity of the machine depends on the products being handled at a linear belt speed of 5 m/min. There is a provision to vary the operating speed of the machine which permits the required variations in the treatment time of commodity as per the established protocols. Water forms the medium of treatment and stored in a tank of 500 l capacity. Water jets operating at varying pressure wash the commodities. Treated and washed commodities travel on a roller conveyor where rotation/rolling and linear motion ensure adequate exposure (up to 3 s) to pulsed xenon light treatment. Peeling machine for medicinal tuber crops: Manual peeling of medicinal root crops such as Safed muesli and Shatavari involves drudgery and is a tedious task. A machine suitable for peeling medicinal tuber crops has been developed. It has a feeding hopper, a washing system, an abrasive peeling mechanism and a discharge spout.