 Standardization of cryopreservation technique for carp milt in the 1990s lowered the requirement of male broodstock population in hatcheries overcoming the problem of inbreeding in many hatcheries. Manipulation of the environment for off-season carp breeding was also attempted with photothermal regulation in the 2000s resulting in an extension in the breeding season (Sarkar et al. 2010). Further, the development of a broodstock diet CIFABROODTM ensured early broodstock maturation, the commercial availability of which is facilitating early breeding in carps. Along with the advancement of fish breeding research, significant advances were also made in the development of different hatchery systems, from the simple hatching pit to the current eco- hatchery. The eco-hatchery system is continued as the principal method of mass-scale carp seed production. Of late, the portable FRP hatchery system has been developed by ICAR- CIFA for decentralized seed production even in remote areas. With increased focus on species diversification, technologies were also developed for breeding and seed production of several other important cultivable species over these years which include the minor carps and barbs (kalbasu Labeo calbasu, fringed-lipped carp L. fimbriatus, Kuria labeo L. gonius, bata L. bata, Olive barb Systomus sarana sarana, pengba Osteobrama belangeri, etc.), murrels (Channa striata and C. marulius), climbing perch (Anabas testudineus), and catfishes (magur Clarias magur, singhi Heteropneustes fossilis, pabda Ompok pabda & O. bimaculatus, yellow catfish Horabagrus brachysoma), etc. (Jena et al. 2020). With the increased popularity of farming of the striped catfish (Pangasianodon hypophthalmus) and to meet the seed demand, indigenous hatchery models were developed by the farmers of West Bengal. Indian Agriculture after Independence 182 The development of the seed production technology for freshwater prawns was another milestone in the freshwater sector. Following the successful closure of the life cycle of the giant freshwater prawn (Macrobrachium rosenbergii) in captivity, a successful hatchery model was developed at ICAR-CIFA. The seed requirement of M. rosenbergii was met by establishing commercial hatcheries in the coastal states. Following this success, a similar hatchery system was also developed by ICAR-CIFA for the two other prawn species viz., M. malcolmsonii (Indian River prawn) and M. gangeticum (Ganga River prawn). Considering the necessity of saline water of about 12% for seed production of M. rosenbergii, ICAR- Central Institute of Fisheries Education (CIFE) also developed the hatchery technology of the species with the use of artificial seawater, which was demonstrated in several land- locked states. 2.2.1.2. Seed rearing Development of the seed rearing technique was the other concurrent progress that took place along with the induced breeding.