 In most of the medicinal plants, the secondary metabolite concentration increases due to stress but, the stress related decrease in biomass generally over- compensates the increase in the concentration of relevant natural products. However, every plant contains different group of secondary metabolites, have different life span, growing season, pheno-phase, soil and climatic conditions and plant parts as specific target for secondary metabolite accumulation. Defining an optimum stress condition that favours a quality produce without deviating the potential yield is a very challenging condition. Specific responses to stress conditions in specific crops at different pheno- phases needs to be explored to understand the impact of climate change in medicinal plants. Climate change can also affect the pest and disease in medicinal plants and affect the welfare of people who depend on the cultivation of medicinal plants and the health of the people who depend on the drugs formulated from such plants. Climate change impact may have a tremendous possible effect on MAPs particularly significant due to their value within traditional systems of medicine and as economically useful plants. At this stage, the future effects of climate change are largely uncertain more so with MAPs, but current evidence suggests that these phenomena are having an impact on MAPs and that there are some potential threats worthy of concern and discussion. For future research on impact of climate change on medicinal plants depends on what kind and which level of stress will be the outcome of climate change, what is required, a high content or a bulk, vegetative or reproductive organs and exploring the source- sink transport, possibility of phytohormone application and the time of stress defining a certain phase of cultivation or a special developmental phase to obtain maximal quality. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Kuldeepsingh A Kalariya (Senior Scientist), ICAR-Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research, Anand, Gujarat 387 310. *Corresponding author: Kuldeep.kalariya@icar.gov.in closure. As a result of partial closure of stomata due to initial or mild stress conditions, a considerable decrease in the CO2 fixation via Calvin cycle occurs. Resultantly, the reduction equivalents (NADPH+H+) which were supposed to be utilized in primary metabolism is now made available, in a massive oversupply to secondary metabolic processes causing enhanced production of secondary metabolic processes. Some secondary metabolites as also reported to be useful in plant defence mechanism. Additionally, genes of pathways leading to secondary metabolites are also up- regulated under stress condition leading to synergistic effect in raised secondary metabolite production under adverse conditions.