 These breads in raw form or after value addition through bleaching and dyeing is used by another group of people (artisans) who do not either have the easy access to jute fibre or having better skill than making breads, to produce finished beautiful handicraft item like table and floor mats, pen stand, decorative carry bags, rakhi, dolls, different models, hats and numerous other item. These handicrafts are marketed by these artisans in different fairs or supplied to different agencies that have their own marketing channel. ABI-NINFET is constantly working to create new group of artisans through hands-on training not only on handicraft but also other products like jute based bags, file, folders, slippers, ornaments, specialty garments, handmade paper and paper items, bleaching and dyeing and supporting them after completion of training through supply of raw materials (jute yarn and braids – natural, bleached and colored, decorative and ornamental fabric etc.) through a ‘raw material bank’ set up for the purpose, providing information and help to participate in different fairs, and limited support of marketing through its ‘Product Display cum Sales Counter’. During last four years ABI-NINFET has provided free of cost training to 440 number of unemployed women (419) and youth (21) and supported more than 231 artisans with raw materials worth ` 4.5 lakh from its raw material bank. Total revenue generated during these four years is approx. ` 27.52 lakhs. ABI-NINFET has also stressed on the development of entrepreneurs in the area of jute and some other fibre based decorative and ornamental fabric production in handloom and its product. We are regularly supplying unique jute based fabrics from our pilot plant to our incubates and also guiding them with supply of new designs to produce different types of bags, file folders, slippers, dress materials including sarees etc. Thus the endeavour towards the establishment of small and micro entrepreneurship lead to different success stories. Few Success stories Success Story 1 ICAR-NINFET has provided advanced training on Jute and Handicrafts to Smt. Smita Mitra, proprietor of M/s. SMITA HANDICRAFTS. After receiving the training, she became a member of ABI and a Start-up under the ICAR- NINFET. She has become a regular master trainer of NINFET and NJB (National Jute Board). She is receiving all the specific and specialized raw materials from the Raw Material Bank of ICAR- NINFET from time to time. This year Gender of trainee participants. Coordinating organisations of training programmes. 27% 23% 45% 5% Co-ordinating Organisation KVK ICAR Institute NGO State Govt. 5% 95% Male Female Gender wise Indian Farming January 2020 25 (2019) she has received an order through ICAR-NINFET for making 250 pieces of jute dolls, 200 pieces of jute coaster, 100 pieces of hanging chain and other decorative items from the organizer of Durgotsab Committee, Tollygunge, Kolkata, to decorate the Puja Pandals of Durga Puja.