 Drainage technology technical details Corrugated PVC pipes with a diameter of 80 mm were used for the field drains and rigid PVC pipes with diameters of 180 mm for the collector drains (Fig. 3). Subsurface drainage with PVC corrugated pipes were laid at 35-40 m between two drains and at an average depth of 1-1.5 m. Price of PVC corrugated pipe was around ` 85/m. The cost include excavation trench using JCB, labour cost for laying of pipe corrugated pipe and refilling on trench, cost and laying of PVC pipe as conveyance connecting corrugated pipe to nallas outside field was around ` 25,000 to 30,000 per ha.. Overall, cost of the system was around ` 40,000 to 55,000 per ha. The system works by gravity and drainage water disposed in to the stream, which ultimately carries it to the Tapi River, about 1.2 km away from the farmers’ fields. At one of the main closer drainage, farmers have made provisions to drain surface water into it, in the event of surface stagnation due to excess rainfall. The collector pipe thereafter is of rigid PVC pipe. Whenever required, fresh water is pumped from the stream/nala and put into rigid collector through pump stand. The collector line is used as lift irrigation pipeline to irrigate the fields. Thus, farmers are using collector line for surface drainage, subsurface drainage and irrigation. Because of multiple uses of the system they are also taking care of the system themselves. Increase in sugarcane yield and economics Sugarcane yield from the closed subsurface drainage system were from 87 to 105 t ha-1, Indian Farming November 2020 17 however, average yields obtained under closed subsurface drainage systems were noticeably significant i.e. 96 t ha-1 that was 65.5% higher compared to areas without installation of CSSD system areas that produced only 58 t ha-1. Subsurface drainage drain excess soil water and salt from the rhizosphere, that keep the soil moisture and aeration and favours the crop growth. Quantifying the influence of this system on the salinity of drainage water indicated that electrical conductivity (EC) and total salt load decreased markedly. Looking to the performance of sugarcane cropyields, it was increased with the installation of subsurface drainage system. The results showed direct relationship between improvement of system performance and increasing in sugarcane yield, followed by a rise of the economic returns. An economic analysis showed that the cost of installing subsurface drainage systems was readily justified by annual increase in sugarcane yield. Reduction in ground water table due to Closed Sub-Surface Drainage System The mean water tables observed goes lower from year to year as expected. The water table range from 35–38 cm (average: 36.5 cm) below ground level before CSSD was lowered down that reached at 47-52 cm (average: 50.0 cm) in the post- drainage situation indicating significant improvement in ground water table (Fig. 4).