 are some of the leading NGOs working in agriculture. Organized user groups: Farmer Producer Groups, Commodity Interest Groups, Farmers Clubs, Farmer’s Cooperatives etc. roles in extension in niche regions and areas. Some of the most successful farmer organization in Maharashtra is MAHAGRAPE, and United Planters Association of Southern India (UPASI) which is the apex body of tea, coffee, rubber and cardamom growers is involved in leadership, research and extension services for the plantation industry. Generally, farmers groups play an important role in reducing the cost of cultivation, increased profitability, information access and reduce the transaction cost there by facilitating farmers to achieve higher price realization. The consumers also get benefitted as they get good quality products at lesser cost. Therefore, many states Nandi and Nedumaran Res. Jr. of Agril. Sci. 10(3) 474 and government of India promoting Farmers Producers’ Organizations (FPOs) as they also play important role in strengthening extension activities. However, upscaling and replication of these models is unheard off. There is a need for enabling policy environment in the country to promote such organizations. To give an example from china, farmer’s cooperatives are playing an important role in the application and dissemination of new technologies. Cooperatives collaborate with research institutes and extension organizations, and provide services to their members. Now a days, over 95% of cooperatives provide effective technology services and help to solve the last mile problems. Majority of the farmers’ cooperative organizations in china provides its members with seeds, pesticides, fertilizers and farm machineries through group buying and direct purchase and this will reduce the price by 10% and increases the profit margin by 25-30 per cent (Zhong 2014). Extension through media and ICT: ICT is an imperative tool to link value chains in agriculture. Due to the increasing number of ICTs tools such as mobile phones, internet, TV etc. has shown tremendous potential to disseminate information to farmers. However, a scalable intervention leveraging ICT has yet to emerge. Kissan Call centres have proved to be important and reliable arm disseminating information and addressing farmer’s queries. Every week more than 1.9 crore crop advisories reach out to farmers. Mobile Apps, TV channels and periodic journals have benefitted e-friendly farmers in a massive way (Gulati et al. 2018). Present status of agriculture extension in India Agricultural extension in India is skewed towards crop production neglecting allied sectors, though the allied sectors such as dairy and fishery significantly contribute towards farmer’s household income. However, extension support is weak in the case of animal husbandry and fisheries in India. The public sector extension is currently offering a one-size-fits-all to all category farmers and all kind of products.