For editorial queries contact Dr Aruna T Kumar Editor (Indian Farming) ICAR-DKMA 011-2584 1004 e mail: editorijans@icar.org.in indfarm@icar.org.in For Subscription and Advertisement contact: S K Joshi Business Manager, DKMA, ICAR Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa New Delhi 110 012 Telefax: 011-2584 3657 e-mail: bmicar@icar.org.in, businessuniticar@gmail.com E ditorial Agriculture is now a big business T raditionally farmers have been sowing seeds, taking care of crops, harvesting crops and then looking for marketing the produce. The market may make him or destroy him depending upon the production, market demand, etc. This is the main aspect on which the livelihood of a farmer’s family depends. The higher price brings joy to the family, but slump in market may result not only in gloom in the family but may also lead to migration of employable youth to greener pastures i.e. nearby or far-off places for income for sustaining family livelihood. If the agriculture is able to provide employment to its practitioners even during climatically disastrous times, it will check the migrations and provide livelihood to them as well. India is predominantly an agrarian country and hence agriculture sector has a huge potential for promoting innovations as it has rich resources of traditional indigenous knowledge. Moreover, country is gradually shifting to demand driven and market led agricultural research. ICAR has established Agri-business Incubation (ABI) centres in 25 ICAR institutes to nurture early stage innovative startups and entrepreneurs. ABI centres act as a platform for the speedy commercialization of the technologies and reinforcing of public private partnerships through an interfacing and networking mechanism between R&D institutes, industries and financial institutions, thereby contributing to a knowledge based economy. Technology applications, skill development and developing the service sector that solves the problem of glut, unemployment, and waste management will change the agriculture sector into an organised sector. This issue of Indian Farming highlights the experiences of ABIs at various ICAR institutes in accelerating entrepreneurship development in sectors like fisheries, handicrafts, livestock, dairy, meat processing, plantation crops, rice-based ecosystems, post-harvest technology, horticulture etc. The issue also contain insights on approach for strengthening of agri-business start-ups ecosystem, business model for custom hiring of agricultural machinery, agri and food startup ecosystem in India.