23(71)/2016-Cdn(Tech) vi Recommendation: Š Š There is a need to prepare computer simulation models of different weather probabilities and develop and promote farming system approaches which can help to minimize the adverse impact of unfavorable weather, while maximizing the benefits of a good monsoon. Š Š To monitor changes in pest and disease profiles and predict new pest and disease outbreaks, an early warning system should be put in place. The overall pest control strategy should be based on Integrated Pest Management for controlling the multiple pests in a given climatic scenario. Š Š Public awareness and capacity building of stakeholders on climate change will aid in effective implementation of the policies and respond effectively to the threats or opportunities posed by climate change. NRM 9 i Name of the Applicant Indian Society of Soil Biology and Ecology, Dept. of Agricultural Entomology, UAS, GKVK, Bangalore ii Title XIth National Symposium on Soil Biology and Ecology- Soil Biota and social insects for sustainable Organic Farming iii Venue and Date(s) 19-21 December 2016 at Dept. of Agricultural Entomology, UAS, GKVK, Bangalore iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 3.00 Lakhs v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(82)/2016-Cdn(Tech) vi Recommendation: Š Š On-farm trials and demonstration should be taken up to provide awareness among farmers regarding use of bio-technology tools for the benefit of farmers. 41 NRM 10 i Name of the Applicant Indian Association of Soil and Water Conservationists, ICAR-IISWC, Kaulagarh Road, Dehradun ii Title National Conference on Farmers First for conserving Soil and Water Resources in North Eastern Region iii Venue and Date(s) 9-11 February 2017 at AAU Campus, Khanpara, Guwahati, Assam iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 3.50 Lakhs v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(87)/2016-Cdn(Tech) vi Recommendations: Š Š Potential ITKs on natural resource conservation and integrated farming system should be upgraded to modern technical knowledge (MTK) for their wider adaptation by the primary stakeholders. This should find priority in research agenda of the concerned institutions/ organizations. Š Š In view of the immense potential of entire NER to convert the existing conventional agriculture to organic, suitable policy and infrastructure support is recommended. NRM 11 i Name of the Applicant Cooch Behar Association for Cultivation of Agricultural Sciences (COBACAS), Uttar Banga Krishi Viswavidyalaya, West Bengal ii Title National Conference on Enhancing Nutritional Security through Climate Smart Farming Practices iii Venue and Date(s) 17-18 March, 2016 at Regional Research Station, Uttar Banga Krishi Viswavidyalaya, Kalimpong, Darjeeling, West Bengal iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.00 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(112)/2016-Cdn.(Tech.) vi Recommendation: Š Š Diversified cropping systems alternating with legumes or pulses should be followed. Š Š Development of suitable region specific agro-forestry systems is needed.