 (2001) 48 Nutrient management practices of North- Eastern Hill Though, the North Eastern Region of India is endowed with rich natural resources, the faulty agricultural practices followed in the region have caused their fast depletion. Shifting cultivation has resulted in large-scale land and environmental degradation in the region. However, there exists some unique, ecofriendly and reasonably productive indigenous farming systems which have remained sustainable for centuries. These farming systems have in -built soil fertility management and soil and water conservation components. In Zabo system, followed in Phek district of Nagaland, the irrigation water from the main water collection tank is passed through animal yard and it carries all dung and urine of the animals to the field below the slope. Besides, farmers add succulent branches and leaves of trees in the field for enhancing soil fertility; Alder (Alnus nepalensis) land use system is followed in Kohima district of Nagaland. More than 200 years old trees Sharma (2001) 106 SOIL FERTILITY MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference of alder, a non-leguminous atmospheric N fixing tree, can be seen in the area. The branches of the trees are spread in the field and left for decomposition or burnt. The Apatani farmers of Arunachal Pradesh make use of farm and household wastes, tree leaves and forest litter for maintaining soil fertility. The rain water from hills, used for irrigation, also brings forest humus to the valley and lower slopes. The ‘Wet Rice cultivation’ or Panikheti farming system make use of tree leaves, cattle dung, pig and poultry droppings and farm wastes for improving soil fertility. Nutrient management in narrow valleys entirely depends on humus from the adjoining hills and semi- decomposed forest litter. The soil in the narrow valleys is generally brownish-black in colour due to high content of humus (North-Eastern Hill Region). 49 Nutrient management practices of Kerala Traditionally, farmers adopt many measures for maintaining and improving the organic matter content of the soils. For rice, cow dung and green leaves are applied before ploughing and thoroughly incorporated into the soil before transplantation. In the case of coconut, the basins are opened before the start of southwest monsoon and these organic manures are applied manually at the onset of monsoon. Vegetable cultivation is done with the use of fresh cow dung in the pits. Stubbles and dried leaves are collected, burnt and the ash is used for cultivation. Farmers also aim at improving the physical properties of the soil by using alluvial deposits and clay. Application of pure river sand to rice soils of lateritic origin improves the silica alumina ratio of the soil and reduces the Fe and Mn toxicity. (Kerala) Sushama et al.