 Sources within individual catchments include both arable (crop) and grassland (or other forage used for livestock grazing), public roads (a non-agricultural source nested within agriculturally dominated catchments), tracks used by livestock and agricultural vehicles, riverbanks and beds which have become disturbed by livestock accessing the watercourse to drink or to cross (Sherriff et al., 2015, 2019; Lamba et al., 2014; Lefrançois et al., 2007). The proportion of total sediment load derived from each of these sources varies by location, depending on their land use, hydrology, soil type, and management. Mobilization and delivery Land use affects the mobilization of sediments from the soil surface. The conventional understanding is that arable land typically exports greater sediment loads to watercourses than equivalent grassland areas. This is due to the greater proportion of exposed soils, more frequent tillage, large field areas, and fewer hedgerows (i.e., boundaries consisting of shrubs or trees) in arable land. However, some grassland catchments, exhibiting high surface connectivity as a result of low soil infiltration capacity as well as prolonged saturation, have been documented to yield greater loads of sediment to receiving water bodies than more freely drained arable catchments (Sherriff et al., 2015). This is a function of the hydrology of the catchment. Reduction in the extent of hedgerows due to intensification of agriculture and merging of small fields into larger, single units (White and Roy, 2015; Sheridan et al., 2011) has increased the surface connectivity via overland flow pathways. This allows sediment, once it has become detached from the soil surface, to be transported to receiving water bodies, rather than being retained at the field margin. Impacts of agricultural sediment on watercourses Suspended sediment within the water column is a feature of natural waters (Vercruysse et al., 2017) however, excessive sediment poses several problems which constrain the desired functioning of watercourses. Accumulation of sediment in the streambed may destroy the habitat of freshwater biota. The freshwater pearl mussel (Margaritifera margaritifera L.), for example, requires a stable, aerated gravel bed with <20% fine sediment (particles measuring <1 mm) constituents (Denic and Geist, 2014). Deposition of fine sediment arriving from outside the watercourse or from upstream reaches has been documented to choke gravel streambeds. This renders these beds uninhabitable for pearl mussel (Österling et al., 2010; Niraula et al., 2017) and other sensitive species such as trout (Lange et al., 2013), salmon (Walling et al., 2003), amphibians (Schmutzer et al., 2008; Muenz et al., 2006), and macroinvertebrates (Davis et al., 2019; Beerman et al., 2018). Considering the variability of bed substrates both across regions and along individual watercourses, it is difficult to set qualitative thresholds for sediment accumulation.