77%), livestock feed and fodder production (3.72%), management of farm animals (3.27%), and capability building of ICT application (3.07%). Care and maintenance of farm machineries and implements, formation and management of SHGs, gender mainstreaming through SHGs, etc. were other areas under such training courses. Trainings for extension personnel were organised on-campus (44.95%) and off-campus (55.05%). Sponsored training programmes With a specialized focus, 4,885 sponsored training courses were organized for 1.67 lakh participants mainly comprising farmers, farm-women and rural youth and extension personnel. The women participants constituted 27.73% of the total in these training programmes. The sponsored programmes were mainly focussed on crop production and management (49.38%), livestock and fisheries (13.30%), home science (9.97%), agricultural extension (16.45%), farm machinery (3.50%) and miscellaneous (7.40%). Similarly, there were 2,568 sponsored training for vocational courses, which benefitted 64,284 rural youth of the country. Extension programmes KVKs organized 7.65 lakh extension programmes/ activities in the form of advisory services, diagnostic and clinic service, celebration of important days, exhibitions, exposure visit, ex-trainees sammelan, farm science club conveners’ meet, farmers’ seminar, farmers’ visit to KVK, field days, film shows, group meeting, kisan goshthi, kisan melas, mahila mandal conveners’ meetings, method demonstrations, plant/animal health camps, scientists’ visit to farmers’ fields, self-help group meetings, soil health camps, soil-test campaigns, workshop and others SUCCESS STORY Horticultural Crop Nursery Business for Self- employment in district Nimbudera, Andaman and Nicobar Islands Shri Om Prakash, a young man, lives in Govindpur village near KVK office in Nimbudera of North and Middle Andaman. He studied up to 10th class. He is the only earning member of his five-member family. He has 0.5 ha of agricultural land. In 2018, Shri. Om Prakash approached KVK, Nimbudera for technical guidance for growing quality planting materials. Further, he attended the training at KVK for learning on scientific nursery management and different plant propagation methods in horticultural crops. Then, he constructed a low-cost shade net and polyhouse for nurseries (10 m × 8 m) in his farm and purchased various nursery tools and implements. He started plant nursery for the production and supply of ornamental plants for flowering and foliage, vegetable seedlings and superior variety of local fruits. He started nursery by doing grafting in local superior varieties of mangoes, citrus and guava fruits. He also established mother plants of guava, mangoes, sapota and flower plants in his farm. Now he has 10 varieties of local type superior mangoes, 4 varieties of citrus fruits and 3 varieties of sapota.