 Varieties breaking down in their level of resistance are being replaced. The newer resistant and higher yielding WH 542, UP 2338, PBW 343 have replaced HD 2329 while HP 1631 has replaced SONALIKA. IN FUTURE ... The wheat crop is mostly irrigated. With land and water, both to be scarcer in days ahead, researchers will concentrate on: @ development and propagation of location- and problem-specific varieties @ replacement of varieties in quick succession to safeguard against rust pathogens @ still higher-yielding varieties for salt-affected soils and crop intensification @ raising the genetic yield level under favourable climate. Research in maize is as old as the ICAR. It began at the Indian (Imperial) Agricultural Research Institute in 1930. We reap 10.20 million tonnes from 6 million hectares at present. The productivity has increased 2.5 times, from 627 kg/ha in 1949 to 1,694 kg/ha in 1993. Improvement in yield has been possible due to rapid generation and identification of productive hybrids and composites since 1960 through collective efforts and multilocation testing in the AlHndia Coordinated Maize Improvement Project. Historically, the Project is the first to have been started off in 1957. The hybrids and composites evolved are: GANGA 1, GANGA 101, RANJIT, JAWAHAR, VIKRAM, VIJAY and GANGA 5. Of them in commercial cultivation are SHAKTI, RATTAN and PROTIMA, the high-protein composites carrying the donor- for-quality Opaque-2 gene. The performance of this recently developed baby corn variety has been much appreciated The latest release of hybrid maize GANGA 11 by the Project Directorate Maize, IARI. The Directorate spearheads the country's high-yielding composite and hybrid, yellow-and- white type, maize programme for kharif and rabi growing. The earlier releases in the series for the Indo- Gangetic belt have been GANGA SAFED, GANGA 2, 5 and 9 17 i =< mf , om , The early maturing kharifhybrid, as yet in testing, has produced 3.5 tonnes of cob per hectare in 75-80 days North-East India, endowed with rich biodiversity, is considered to be the secondary centre of origin of the maize. SIKKIM PRIMITIVE, recognized as a living fossil, is much used in breeding programmes for increasing the number of cobs on a plant. Sweet- and pop-corn composites developed in the late sixties are MADHURI SWEET CORN, AMBER POP and VL AMBER POP. A fodder composite AFRICAN TALL has been released in 1980. The rabicrop of maize yields abundantly. Research on this aspect has dominated in the mid-seventies in the south and in the early eighties in the north. H-STARCH, DECCAN 103, DECCAN 105, and TRISHULATA have been developed for rabi cultivation. Shift in emphasis of late on single-cross hybrids with very high-yield levels has led to several hybrids in the pipeline; PARAS being a recent release. IN FUTURE...