 94 Unit 9: Instrumentation and Process Control Static and dynamic characteristics of instruments, Transducers elements, intermediate elements, indicating and recording elements. Measurement of motion, force, torque, power, temperature, humidity, pressure and flow. Physical and chemical sensors, biosensors, Fuzzy logic, neural networks and control. Monitoring of plant parameters through Internet, Programmable logic controller, Data loggers, Data Acquisition Systems (DAS). Introduction to Direct Digital Control (DDC), Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition Systems (SCADA), and Virtual Instrumentation. Unit 10 : Agri-Project Planning and Management Project development. market survey and time motion analysis. Selection of equipment, technology option, techno - economic feasibility. processing in production catchment. Product and process design, PERT, CPM, transport model, simplex, linear and dynamic programming, operation log book. Material balance and efficiency analysis, performance testing, performance indices, energy requirement and consumption. Marketing of agricultural products, market positioning. BIS/ FSSAI/ ISO standards/ guidelines on best practices, equipment and their design and operation for handling, processing and storage of food/feed. 95 10 HOME SCIENCES 10. 1 HOME SCIENCES Unit 1:- Human Nutrition, Health and Interventions Food and Food Groups: Food production and consumption trends in India and their consequences on nutrition situation. Cereals, millets, pulses, oilseeds, vegetables, fruits, milk, eggs, meat and other animal foods. Nutritional value of these food groups and their contribution towards nutrients in Indian diets. Storage of Food Grains: Grain storage practices in India. Quantitative and qualitative losses during post-harvest handling and storage of food grains. Improved and scientific methods of storage of food grains. Cooking Methods and Food Processing: Food processing-physical and chemical changes in foods during processing including cooking and preservation with special reference to sensory characteristics and nutritional value. Traditional methods of processing such as parboiling, germination, malting and fermentation and their nutritional advantages. Food colours, flavours and enzymes, and their importance. Food Safety: Food safety-natural toxicants, pesticide residues, common adulterants and mycotoxins, their harmful effects on health, and methods of eliminating their harmful effects. Food borne diseases and their prevention. Macro and Micro Nutrients in Human Nutrition: Macro and micro-nutrients in human nutrition. Carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, vitamins, minerals and trace elements. Requirements, sources, functions and effects of deficiency. Energy-methods of assessing energy requirement and factors influencing requirement. Qualitative differences in food proteins and methods of assessing protein quality. Factors influencing availability of minerals. Nutrients inter-relationships.