 The studies showed that BCMs have highest affinity for MOR and least affinity for kappa 1 opioid receptor. The Tandem Mass Tag (TMT) based comparative proteome profiling of A1A1, A2A2 and A1A2 Beta casein variants of cow milk was carried out. Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) analysis revealed the association of few differentially expressed proteins such as XDH, LPO, SFRP4, APOE, APOA-1 etc. having role in regulation of lactation, prevention of diabetes, heart diseases, albinism and hindrance of tumor proliferation. Vaccine potential of cctA and hyaluronidase gene mutants of Clostridium chauvoei: Studies indicated that replicon repH of the pMTL007C-E2 was replaced by repL of the pMTL85151 resulting in pMTL007C-E6. pFdx promoter (from C. sporogenes) of the Group of buffalo blastocysts Total cell numbers of hatched blastocyst Phase contrast Hoechst 33342 Crystal model structure BCMs BCM-9 BCM-5 BCM-7 Molecular docking of human mu-opioid receptor with BCM-9 HMOR- 1b1 HMOR-1c HMOR- 1y2 HMOR- 1y3 HOPRM-1 Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 40 pMTL007C-E6 was replaced by pCc-Fdx promoter (from C. chauvoei) to yield pMTL010 vector. The pFdx promoter (from C. sporogenes) was replaced with native cc-pFdx promoter from C. chauvoei to generate pMTL010: Cch- cctA-274a construct, which was transferred into C. chauvoei cells by conjugation. This construct could efficiently inactivate the cctA gene of C. chauvoei, generating Cch-cctA274a: CT mutant. For functional characterization, wild type and mutant C. chauvoei cells were grown on sheep blood agar for 48 h under anaerobic conditions. Since cctA is the major haemolysin of C. chauvoei, cctA mutant of C. chauvoei did not haemolyse sheep RBCs, while wildtype C. chauvoei showed extensive haemolysis, thus confirming the inactivation of cctA gene at phenotypic level. Apart from this, cctA and hyaluronidase genes of C. chauvoei were characterized by sequencing analysis and expressed in prokaryotic expression system. It was found out that TatD by itself may not be a true DNase, but could be contributing to the DNase activity of C. chauvoei. The quorum sensing system in C. chauvoei was characterised and it was found that, unlike other Clostridium spp, C. chauvoei does not possess luxS based quorum sensing system but possesses agrBD system of quorum sensing. growth arrest in COS-1 cells that is mediated through stat3 activation. In addition, rBuLIF also activates MEK/ERK, Ras, mTOR, Hippo-Taz, and RAP1 signalling. Luteinizing hormone-based sensor for estrus detection in buffaloes: Putative peptide sequences from buffalo LH protein beta subunit were identified, designed and characterized by several bioinformatics analyses in order to develop luteinizing hormone-based sensor for estrus detection in buffaloes. Polyclonal antibodies (Anti-LHP) against those peptides were raised in rabbit. Gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) were conjugated with most specific anti-LHP antibody.