 The top five countries visiting the Website include India, United States of America, United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates and Nepal. On ICAR Facebook, a total of 430 posts were published during the year 2021 and it has 2,20,379 Followers. ICAR Twitter handle has more than 1,60,132 Followers. On an average, 3 Tweets are Posted every day and a total of 1,013 Tweets were posted during the year. The YouTube Channel of ICAR has Video Films, Animations, Lectures/Interviews by dignitaries and Eminent Scientists, Proceedings of National and International Events, etc. It has 63,300 Subscribers. ICAR DARPAN Dashboard (https://icar.dashboard. nic.in/login.aspx) provides centralized, easy-to-access platform for display and access of data from multiple sources. To increase the penetration of agricultural technologies and two way effective communication with farmers, multi-media based multilingual ICT based communication system “Kisan Sarathi: An interface solution with farmers” was launched on 93rd foundation day of Indian Council Agricultural Research. The Agricultural Research Management System (ICAR-ARMS) has been developed for evaluation, monitoring and management of scientific output for policy planning of the Council. E- HRMS (Human Resource Management System) is a work flow based online solution which consists of creation of e- service book and all processes/information impacting service book from joining to retirement of an employee. Land Record Management Information System (https:// lrms.icar.gov.in) is an online solution for Land Record Management of ICAR institutes was developed by IT Unit of IASRI in collaboration with ICT Unit of ICAR Headquarters and Director (Works). ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 7 OVERVIEW Technology assessment, demonstration and capacity development: Technology assessment is carried out by KVKs, in different locations under various agro-ecological situations. About 5,222 technologies of various crops were assessed at 12,015 locations by conducting 25,843 trials at farmers’ field. The different thematic areas were: cropping systems, drudgery reduction, farm machineries, integrated crop management, integrated disease management, integrated nutrient management, integrated pest management, integrated weed management, processing and value-addition, resource conservation, storage techniques, and varietal assessment of cereals, pulses, oilseeds, fruits, vegetable and commercial crops. A total of 873 technological interventions relating to different livestock were assessed by KVKs at 3,204 locations through 6,646 trials covering thematic areas such as animal disease management, evaluation of breeds, feed and fodder management, nutrition management, livestock production management, and processing and value-addition.