 Immunocytochemistry of epithelial cells, stromal cells and 3D ECC was conducted. Effect of different extra-cellular matrices on structural and functional characteristics of buffalo epithelial cells using 2D-culture system was studied. Differential gene expression was analyzed. Based on expression of key genes on epithelial cells (Cox-2 and PGFS) and other genes related to cell proliferation (PCNA) and cells receptivity (SSP-1, ITGB3, ITGA3), two matrix material which included Gelatin 0.1% and Geltrex 1:3 was considered best for growth of epithelial cells. Collection of buffalo oocytes and in vitro maturation, fertilization and culture for production of embryos was carried out. Out of 487 cleaved embryos, 125 (25.66%) developed Expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-10, IL-1, IFN-Y, iNOS, TNF-α and TGF-β) 39 Salient Achievements of the Projects to morula, 75 (15.44%) to hatched blastocysts and finally 39 (8.00%) to expanded blastocyst stage. In order to find out health status of the in vitro produced buffalo blastocysts, the total cell number (TCN) and apoptotic index was determined after staining with Hoechst 33342 and TUNEL assay, respectively which stains the nuclei. These embryos will be utilized for further studies on endometrium-embryo-pathogen interactions and gene expression. Delineating beta casein variants in Indian cows and potential health implications of A1A2 milk: The allelic frequencies for the A1/A2 allele of beta casein was estimated in more than 4000 animals including Indian native (30 breeds), crossbred, exotic cattle and semen samples. The analysis revealed that the frequency of A1 allele was highest in exotic cattle (0.31), followed by the semen samples (0.30) and crossbred cattle (0.29). Indian native cattle revealed the minimum frequency of A1 allele (0.05). The genotype A2A2 was predominant in all the analyzed cattle types and ranged from 0.49 (exotic cattle) to 0.90 (Indigenous cattle) with an average frequency of 0.59. The analysis of β-casein mRNA expression data (based on CT values) revealed that in both Sahiwal and Karan fries, the expression of β-casein was significantly (P=0.0014, P<0.05) higher in early and peak lactation stage than mid and late stages. Time course and feeding schedule for studies related to association of BCM7/9 with diabetes in mouse model were carried out. Molecular docking studies to understand binding of BCMs with different mu receptors (splice variants) was done. In-silico analysis was carried out to identify genes representing µ-opioid receptors (MOR) in mice and human genome. Different splice variants of MORs were fished out from a much larger pool of sequences available in NCBI databases. The structures of BCMs, mu, kappa and delta receptors were predicted and molecular docking studies were performed. Molecular docking was carried out between ligands (BCM-5, BCM-7 and BCM-9) and mice MOR receptors.