 Management of endoparasites Stage of production Deworming schedule Boars Every 6 months Sows 3-4 weeks weeks after breeding and 2 weeks before farrowing Piglets 2-3 weeks after weaning Fatteners 1 week after weaning and every 6-8 weeks Gilts 1 week after weaning, 3 months and at 7 months of age at least 2 weeks before service Common deworming agents, dose and its indications For helminths Piperazine @ 250-300 mg/kg b.wt in feed and water (single dose) Fenbendazole @ 5 mg/kg b.wt. in feed (single dose) For coccidiosis Amprolium @ 25-65 mg/kg of feed once or twice a day for 4-5 days Indian Farming 28 November 2023 Table 2. Vaccination planner of pigs Vaccine Commercial vaccines and companies Primary vaccination 1st Booster 2nd Booster Revaccination Other advisories Classical swine fever vaccine Lapinized swine fever vaccine, Institute of Veterinary Biologicals, Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh); Institute of Animal Health and Veterinary Biological Products, Kolkata (West Bengal); Institute of Animal Health and Veterinary Biologicals, Mhow (Madhya Pradesh) 56 after weaning After 1 month of 1st vaccination After 6 months of 1st vaccination At 6 months interval Adult Female - 5 days after farrowing Adult male - repeat every 6 months FMD vaccine Futvac® (Brilliant Bio Pharma Ltd, Telangana), Raksha Ovac® (Indian Immunologicals Ltd, Telangana), Bio FMD® (Bio Vet Pvt Ltd, Karnataka) 21 days after weaning After 1 month of 1st vaccination -- At 6 months interval Repeat revaccination 15 days after each swine fever vaccination Porcine circovirus vaccine Ingelvac CircoFLEX vaccine (Boehringer Ingelheim India Pvt Ltd, Mumbai, Maharashtra) At 3 weeks of age -- -- -- Single dose vaccine Note: Swine fever vaccine should not be administered in pregnant animals. Fifteen days’ interval should be given between two vaccinations. Dose and route- as per manufacturer’s instructions. Ectoparasites and their management Ectoparasites pose a significant threat to pig farming, with mange mites (Sarcoptes scabiei var. suis) and lice (Haematopinus suis) being the primary parasites. Sarcoptic mange, caused by Sarcoptes scabiei var. suis, is particularly detrimental to production efficiency, making effective management strategies crucial. Efficient management of ectoparasites is crucial in pig farming to maintain production efficiency. Prior to farrowing, it is advisable to scrub sows with insecticides to reduce the risk of transmission to piglets. The following products are commonly recommended for ectoparasite control in pigs: Ivermectin (300 mcg/ kg body weight subcutaneously), Malathion (1% spray), and Amitraz (12.5% dip). Vaccination planner The comprehensive vaccination planner (Table 2) outline the specific details of each vaccine, including the vaccine name, recommended age for administration, dosage, and any necessary booster shots.