 Cardiospermum: Balloon vine, blister creeper, heart pea, heartseed, winter cherry Albizia: Albizia amara Boiv. Cardiospermum: Cardiospermum halicacabum Linn. Bryonia: Bryonia laciniosa Linn. Grewia: Grewia flavescens Juss. Albizia: The wood is heavy, straight-grained and medium- textured. Sapwood is white and heartwood light brown, often with a purplish cast mottled with dark and light shades. The wood is used for tool handles, mallett heads and agricultural implements. It is commonly used for carving and turnery. The tree yields a good gum which is cooling, and useful in erysipelas, eye diseases, inflammation and ulcers. The leaves are used in ophthalmia and as hair wash, and also as adulterant for tea. The flowers are considered a cooling medicine and are externally applied to boils, eruptions and swellings. In southern Kerala it is grown chiefly as green-manure for rice, and as an avenue tree. The seeds yield a dark yellow fixed oil. The seeds are astringent, and given in piles, diarrhoea and gonorrhoea. The oil from the seeds is said to cure leprosy and Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Geographical indications Habit leucoderma. The leaves, bark and wood are reported to contain a methyl ester of a fatty acid and a triterpene saponin. The presence of 6-sitosterol is reported in the bark and wood. Cardiospermum: The herb is diuretic, stomachic and rubefacient. It is used in rheumatism, lumbago, nervous diseases, as a demulcent in orchitis and in dropsy. In Punjab the seeds are used as a tonic in fevers and as a diaphoretic. Powder of the seeds is reportedly used for the treatment of cancer. The seeds yield a pale yellow, fixed oil, with the taste of cucurbitaceous oils. The seeds also yield an essential oil. Bryonia: In Ayurveda the plant is hot, pungent and alterative; Leaves good for inflammations. The plant possesses bryonin. Grewia: It is used for fodder. The flattened angular branches are used for making baskets. The drupe is edible. Albizia: A moderate-sized, much branched, unarmed, deciduous tree distributed in the drier regions of south India and in a few localities in Madhya Pradesh. Bole crooked, up to 3.0 m in height and 0.6-0.9 m in girth; branchlets densely pubescent, leaflets 15-30 pairs, membranous with a gland between the lowest pair; flowers yellow, fragrant, in peduncled heads; pods 10-15 cm long, reddish brown. Cardiospermum: An annual or sometimes perennial climber, 3.5 m in height, commonly found as a weed throughout India, ascending up to 1,200 m. Leaves deltoid, biternate, 3-8 cm long, leaflets deeply cut, acuminate, laterals oblong or ovate, terminal rhomboid-lanceolate; flowers white, in umbellate cymes, with a pair of peduncles modified into tendrils; capsules depressed-pyriform, covered with bladder like calyx, winged at the angles; seeds globose, black, smooth, 4-6 mm, with a small, white, heart-shaped aril.