 ●Arrange for timely release of funds (Busget Estimate -BE and Revised Estimate-RE) and monitor their proper utilization through quarterly expenditure statements. ●Half-yearly review of expenditure with the Assistant Finance and Accounts Officers of the ZPDs for preparation of BE and RE. ●Annual meeting of the Comptrollers of SAUs and Senior Finance Officers of ICAR Institutes for reviewing the UC/AUC and to plan for the actual requirement of funds. 20 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK Zonal level: The ZPD will have the responsibility for co-ordination, monitoring and implementation of activities by KVKs in the zone. ZPD should prepare blue print for extension related activities at zonal level. (a) Technical coordination and monitoring ●Initiate, plan, coordinate and execute extension research to support and improve the technology application and dissemination. ●Analyse and prepare state specific database on the agricultural situation with focus on thrust areas and related issues. ●Prepare and monitor a need-based capacity development plan for the staff of each KVK. ●Guide on development of Annual Action Plan by each KVK keeping in view the district-specific needs and thrust areas, national and state policies, and emerging issues in agriculture and allied sectors. ●Use coordination linkage mechanism for technology generation and delivery system involving all stakeholders. (Eg: consortium, convergence, public-private partnership and farmer-led innovation and market-led extension). ●Ensure execution of Annual Action plan through effective technical backstopping and field level monitoring by the Director of Extension of SAUs/CAU as well as Scientists of the ZPD. ●Organize Annual Zonal Workshop for reviewing the progress report of each KVK in the Zone and suggest specific measures for improvement. ●Monitor the timely conduct of Scientific Advisory Committee (SAC) meetings and implementation of their recommendations. ●A Zonal Level Monitoring Committee consisting of Eminent Scientist as Chairman be constituted every three years. The committee will consist of one Scientist from ZPD and one Chief Scientist- cum-Head of awarded KVK, (national/zonal award). The Committee should visit 10% of KVKs in the zone annually during the cropping season to review the progress and give its specific recommendations for improvement. ●Ensure documentation of case studies, success stories and impact assessment of KVK activities. (b) Administrative and financial ●Monitor timely filling up of all sanctioned positions by the host organizations and ensure that the selected staff work for a minimum period of five years. ●Monitor creation, utilization and maintenance of infrastructure facilities, so provided. ●Periodical verification of land records, asset registers and other records.