 It is necessary to promote the maintenance and care of these lentil genetic reservoirs to preserve the evolutionary history of this legume and not only focus on its economic and agricultural impact worldwide. Because lentils have high nutritional content and beneficial effects on soil restoration, this review focuses on the importance of this legume in human health and its application in phytoremediation processes. 2. Biological Nitrogen Fixation (BNF) The process through which legumes can apport fixed nitrogen into soils is known as biological nitrogen fixation (BNF). BNF has contributed approximately 50 million tons of N per year to agriculture, but currently, its contribution is less than half of that provided by chemical fertilizers [20]. Nitrogenous fertilizer production requires large amounts of fossil fuels, representing approximately 2% of global energy consumption [21]. Large amounts of nitrogen applied to the soil are not absorbed by crops. Almost 25% of nitrogen fertilizers are lost via leaching during agricultural processes [22]. This generates cumulative effects that trigger contamination, thus affecting the health of the soil and environment [23]. Lentils have important functions in maintaining and improving soil [24] because they enrich soil nutrients by adding nitrogen, carbon, and organic matter, promoting the sustainable cultivation of cereals. Therefore, lentil cultivation improves soil fertility and health [25,26]. Generally, the interaction between legumes and rhizobia (Figure 2) begins in nitrogen- deficient soils, where legumes secrete secondary metabolites called flavonoids. These flavonoids are recognized by bacteria, which activate the synthesis and subsequent release of lipochitooligosaccharides known as nodulation (Nod) factors. Nod factors are recog- nized by the legume through the LjNFR (Nod Factor Receptor)/MtLYK3 (LysM Receptor Kinase) and LjNFR5/MtNFP (Nod Factor Perception) receptors [27]. The formation and maintenance of nodules are expensive for plants in terms of energy consumption; thus, this is a highly regulated process. Plants have evolved molecular pathways to control the number of formed nodules. Autoregulation of nodulation (AON) responds to rhizobial infection to maintain an adequate number of nodules; this pathway works systematically throughout the shoot [27–30]. The genes involved in the AON process are LjHAR (Hypern- odulation And Aberrant Root)/GmNARK (Nodule Autoregulation Receptor Kinase)/MtSUNN (Super Numeric Nodules), homologous to the Arabidopsis CLAVATA1 (CLV1) gene, which is a gene involved in the AON process and meristem maintenance. Other genes involved in this process are GmRIC1 and GmRIC2 in soybean and their orthologs in other species: LjCLE-RS1 and LjCLE-RS2 in Lotus japonicus Regel (K. Larsen.), MtCLE12 and MtCLE13 in Medicago truncatula (Gaertn.), and PvRIC1 and PvRIC2 in Phaseolus vulgaris (L.