 Among the different seed enhancement techniques, hydro-priming could be a suitable treatment for salinity and drought-prone environments. It is a simple and cheap technique, with promising effects. Hydro-primed seeds produce healthy seedlings, uniform crop stand, escape drought and hasten crop maturity. Osmo-priming Osmo-priming involves seed hydration in an osmotic solution of low water potential such as polyethylene Indian Farming 75 January 2023 glycol or a salt solution under controlled aerated conditions to permit imbibition but prevent radical protrusion. Most commonly used salts for osmo-priming are potassium chloride (KCl), potassium nitrate (KNO3), sodium chloride (NaCl), magnesium sulphate (MgSO4), potassium phosphate (K3PO4), calcium chloride (CaCl2) and potassium hydrophosphate (KH2PO4). These salts provide nitrogen to the germinating seed which is required for the protein synthesis during the germination process. Osmo-priming induces rapid and uniform germination and decreases mean germination time. Hormonal priming Cytokinins play a vital role in all the phases of plant growth and development starting from seed germination to senescence. Priming with optimum concentration of cytokinins has been reported to increase germination, growth and yield of many crop species. Gibberellic acid (GA3) is known to break seed dormancy, enhance germination, hypocotyl growth, internodal length, cell division in the cambial zone and increase leaf size. GA has stimulatory effect on hydrolytic enzymes, which speed up the germination and promote seedling elongation by degrading the cells surrounding the radicle in cereal seeds. Nutrient priming Seed priming with micronutrients improves stand establishment, growth and yield; furthermore, the enrichment of grain with micronutrients is also reported in most cases. Many researchers proved the potential of nutrient priming in wheat, rice and forage legumes. Micronutrients, viz. Zn, B, Mo, Mn, Cu and Co are commonly used for seed treatment in most of the field crops. Seed treatment with micronutrient is a low-cost way to improve nutritional level of crops. Farmers in South Asia follow nutrient priming by soaking seeds in micronutrient solution overnight which they find very useful and simple. Seed priming with zinc salts is used to increase growth and disease resistance of seedlings. Nano-priming Nano-priming is an innovative technology that helps to improve seed germination, seed growth, and yield by imparting resistance to various stresses. Nano-priming is a considerably more effective method compared to all other seed priming methods. The salient features of nanoparticles (NPs) improve electron exchange and enhance surface reaction capabilities associated with various components of plant cells and tissues. The nano- priming is done using, viz. zinc and zinc oxide, iron, titanium oxide and silver.