 Unit 10 Microbiological aspects of quality control and quality assurance in production of milk and milk products; Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) and the relevance and Sanitary Standard Operating Procedures (SSOP); Importance of Total Quality Management (TQM) in dairy industry; Application of HACCP programme in dairy industry; Safety concerns of bio-film formation on equipment surfaces and their control measures; Risk assessment approaches and role of productive microbiology in dairy foods; Conventional and current methods like impedance, ATP luminescence, pyruvate, etc. in detection of food pathogens; Application of immunological, PCR, Real time PCR, DNA probes, Microarrays (Biochips) and Biosensors, etc. for detection of food pathogens; Biosafety of Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) / foods. 8.4 DAIRY TECHNOLOGY Unit 1 : Market Milk Status of dairy industry in India. Recent policy changes related to dairy sector (MMPO & WTO). Principles and practices for production of high quality milk. Methods of milk procurement, payment, quality assessment, detection of adulterants, handling and transportation of milk. Methods of raw milk preservation. Physical properties and chemical composition of milk of cow, buffalo and other species of milch animals; their importance in milk processing. Centrifugal separation, clarification and bactofugation and factors affecting their efficiency. Homogenization process and its implications in dairy processing; efficiency of homogenization and factors affecting it. Thermal processing of milk. Principles and methods of pasteurization and sterilization. UHT processing and aseptic packaging. Special milks. Principles of production, processing and marketing of toned, double toned, reconstituted, recombined, flavoured and filled milks. Unit 2 : Fat Rich Dairy Products Basic principles and recent concepts in production and processing of different types of cream, butter, margarine, fat spreads, butter oil and ghee. Fractionation of fat and its application. Health aspects of milk fat. Cholesterol reduced and cholesterol-free dairy products. Unit 3 : Frozen Milk Products Trends in the frozen milk products industry in India. Definition, classification and composition of ice- cream and other frozen desserts. Role of milk constituents and other ingredients, processing steps, packaging and storage methods on quality of ice-cream. Technological aspects of manufacture of plain, fruit, soft-serve, low fat and dietic ice-creams and novelties. Indigenous frozen desserts, kulfi, malai-ka-baraf etc.; their production techniques and quality. Distribution of frozen desserts. Newer ingredients for use in the ice-cream industry. Unit 4 : Cheese and Fermented Milk Products Status and scope of cheese industry. Fermented milk products – their nutritional and therapeutic value. Definition and classification of cheese and fermented milks. Milk in relation to cheese making. 85 Manufacture of Cheddar, Gouda, Mozzarella and Swiss cheeses.