 80 Various products made and marketed by ELP students ELP students preparing poly sleeves for propagation of tea plants Showcasing of ELP products by ELP students to visiting dignitaries Showcasing products made by ELP students ELP students during tea processing ELP students preparing black pepper saplings for sale as rooted cuttings Considering the importance, various aspects of tea production, processing as well as marketing and value addition in tea are demonstrated to the students under the guidance of faculties of the department of Tea Husbandry & technology. All the students may not be equally interested to start a career as an entrepreneur but some of the students may become future agri-preneurs for whom exposure to line departments is very essential during this programme. Students are critically observed and are given access to technology, stakeholders and mentors which are considered to be very essential for the budding agri- preneurs. Following financial assistance given by the ICAR, the Department of Tea Husbandry & Technology is presently well equipped with necessary logistic support to run this ELP module successfully. AAU has its own tea garden, tea processing unit and experienced faculty members. From the inception of this programme, this module has been proved to a resounding success for Assam Agricultural University, Jorhat. Challenges At a time when our farm sector is depicted with distress scenes making national headlines, it is high time for us to attract our young generation specially the agricultural graduates to take up farming in a professional approach. A time has come up to train our students to become Job givers rather than Job seekers. Encouragement to final year students is the need of the hour to pursue them to start a professional career in agriculture. The fact that farming is profitable has to be imbibed by our young, talented students. This can be achieved through development of entrepreneurial skills and confidence building measures along with brushing up of their management capabilities through well designed programmes. This will inspire more and more budding agricultural graduates of this region and help them in building a wonderful career. Success stories This programme has encouraged students of Assam Agricultural University, Jorhat to start small agro-based industries of their own. Following is the list of few students turned entrepreneurs who had completed ELP in Tea Husbandry & Technology: OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 81 A. Name of the Student Entrepreneur Saranga Pani Mahanta Address Banmukh Chutia Gaon, P.O. Joyrapar, Sivasagar District (Assam) Email ID and mobile number sarangapanimahanta20@gmail.