 After partial harvesting, the ponds were stocked with advanced fingerlings to maintain the initial stocking density. In 180 days, this model yielded a production of 3.0–3.8 tonnes/ha with a benefit cost ratio of 1.50– 1.66. K Juveniles of maze rabbit fish We must enable farmers to feed Indian and the world; and earn a good livelihood. — Narendra Modi 7. Crop Management Crop Production Decision support tool (APSIM) to design suitable crop management in sorghum: A decision support tool (APSIM) to design suitable crop management in sorghum interventions for locations and to optimize rabi sorghum systems productivity is being developed. Simulation study indicated that refined APSIM setup with gridded NASA data could be successfully used to simulate yields of rabi sorghum across different parts of India. The support system allows its practical use by farmers/researchers for taking decisions on site specific management options for optimizing the G×E management for augmenting grain yield. in rice–wheat–mungbean system for cropping system intensification. Cropping system in Peninsular region: Intercropping of maize +cowpea (1:1) was most effective with higher grain yield of maize (66 q/ha) compared to that in maize–chickpea system (63.90 q/ ha). On liquid fertilizer supplementation, highest grain yield of cowpea DC-15 was recorded in water soluble complex fertilizer applied (1%) at flowering stage (60 DAS) in the peninsular India. Overview of interactive map - Variation in average plant density of rabi sorghum for Gulbarga region. Organic farming in pigeon pea: Work on organic farming (OF) in pulses especially in long duration pigeon pea (LDP) showed that higher crop performance could be realized with OF vis-à-vis inorganic or recommended practice. Highest productivity in LDP was observed when relatively narrow plant density (75×20 cm v/s 90×20 cm recommended for LDP) was maintained especially under low soil fertility/lighter soils under IGPs. Similarly, significantly higher grain yield in chickpea was recorded with organic practice alone [FYM 5 t/ha + biofertilizers (Biozinc + Biophos)]. Performance of IPM 205-7 mungbean under conservation agriculture (CA): Under CA practices extra early summer mungbean variety IPM 205-7 (Virat) performed better and can be recommended under CA Performance of Virat—An early mungbean variety with 55 days extra in IGP. Cropping intensity enhancement: Crop intensification with fox tail millet (korra) as pre-rabi crop, is recommended in rainfed Alfisols of Prakasam district for additional net income of ` 10,000 to 25,000/ ha, where farmers normally grow tobacco and Bengal gram in rabi season. Maize+ cowpea (1:1) intercropping at Dharwad (Peninsular India). Tail millet in rainfed Alfisols of Prakasam district.