 *Corresponding author’s e-mail: burhan.icar@gmail.com Microbe less Soil soaked in HgCl2 Soil soaked in root exudates (@5.0 g C) Microbe plus Fungal cast Indian Farming 18 April 2023 Royal jelly: A boon of nature Sudeepa Kumari Jha*, Md Monobrullah, Anjani Kumar and Milan Kumar Chakravarty Birsa Agricultural University, Kanke, Ranchi, Jharkhand 834 006 Royal jelly is a bee product secreted by worker bees. It is responsible for morphological characteristics of queen bee. It is a rich source of protein and has high medicinal importance. It is also used in food industries as dietary supplement and in cosmetic industries. But, it is not considered as a bee product in traditional bee keeping because after secretion, it is immediately consumed by bees and is not stored. Harvesting of royal jelly becomes feasible only in the case of queen rearing. The most common method of mass rearing of queen bee is grafting of larvae in artificial queen cup. The royal jelly is extracted with aspirator or water vacuum pump and is stored in jar after filtering with nylon net. The shelf life of fresh royal jelly is very small. A small beekeeper may also harvest royal jelly along with honey. Keywords: Grafting, Honey bee, Queen cell cup, Royal jelly R OYAL jelly is a milky white viscous and jelly like substance secreted by hypopharyngeal gland of worker bees in bee colony. The bee colony consists of one queen, few hundred drones and thousands of worker bees. The queen bee is the longest bee in the colony and its wing covers the abdomen partially. While in drone and worker bees, wing fully covers the abdomen. The drone is larger in size than worker bee and their abdominal tip is blunt, while that of worker is pointed. Queen is fertilized female which lays eggs, worker is sterile female which performs all the functions of the colony like foraging and nursing the brood and queen bee. Drone is haploid male and its function is to fertilize the newly emerged queen bee during nuptial flight. Both queen and worker are developed from fertilized egg, while drone develops from unfertilized egg. The brood cell of worker and drone bees are hexagonal with flat cap and convex cap. The difference between queen and worker bee is only related to Indian Farming 73 (04): 18-20; April 2023 feeding during larval stage. For the first three days, larvae of all caste are fed on royal jelly, hence, it is also called as bee milk or brood food. After three days, the drone and worker larvae are no longer fed with royal jelly, they feed on mixture of nectar and honey. But queen larvae are continuously fed with royal jelly throughout their life. It is believed that royal jelly is mainly responsible for fertility and long life span of queen bee. Royal actin is the main compound in royal jelly that triggers development of morphological character in queen bee, viz. large in size.