 Pest and diseases: The tree tomato is not typically seriously affected by pests, although they are occasionally attacked by green aphids (Myzus persicae), Tomato worm (Neoleucinodes elegantalis) and fruit flies (Trialeurodes vaporariorum) will attack the fruits. All of these pests are treatable with the same chemical treatments that are used on other solanaceous plants. The principal disease is powdery mildew, which may cause serious defoliation if not controlled. The plant is noted for its resistance to tobacco mosaic virus, though it is susceptible to cucumber mosaic virus and potato virus. Die-back, of unknown origin, at times, is lethal to the flowers, fruit cluster, twigs, and new shoots. Potted plants grown inside should be watched for the common house plant pests, such as mealy bugs, cottony scale, and whiteflies. Affected plants should be destroyed. Physiological disorder: Small, semi-transparent, hard, irregular stones are sometimes discovered in the flesh of fruit containing sodium and calcium and small quantities of tin, copper, chromium, iron. These stones are most likely the result of crop cultivation on mineral-rich soils i.e. lateritic soils. Yield: The plant starts fruiting at two years of seed sowing and reaches peak production in the third or fourth year. It may keep on fruiting for 11 to 12 years. A tree is expected to yield 25-30 kg fruits annually. Storage: In ordinary storage conditions, it deteriorates rapidly. However, at 3.5 to 4.5°C fruit can be stored for about 12 to 14 weeks. These fruits have firm flesh and tough skin so can be sent to long distances without cracking. At high-temperature storage, a significant postharvest loss can occur due to bitter rot (Colletotrichum sp). Applications of postharvest fungicides greatly reduce this loss. Harvesting: It fruits almost throughout the year but chiefly during November to March. Fruits are ready to harvest when they develop the yellow or red colour characteristic of the particular variety or at a turning stage (when green colour begins to change to yellow or red colour. To harvest, the fruit is simply pulled from the tree with a snapping motion, leaving the stem attached. The fruit can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 10 weeks, but temperatures below 38° F can cause the skin to discolour. How to use? It is used as half-cut, sprinkled with sugar, and served for eating by scooping out the flesh and pulp. Its fruits should not be cut on a wooden or another permeable surface, as the juice will make an indelible stain. For another purpose, it is used after blanching (i.e. after removing its skin). Tree tomato slices, alone or with sliced Indian Horticulture 26 Jam, Juices, desserts, ice cream, jelly, and chutneys can also be prepared from it. Being high in pectin, the fruit is easily made into jelly but the fruit oxidizes and discolours without special treatment during processing. Whole, peeled fruits, with sugar, are cooked to a sauce for use on ice cream.