, k = 3, 6, 12, 24 months,), determining the non- exceedance probability, and identifying the appropriate standard normal quantile as the SPI. The gamma distribution was found to fit long-term rainfall records well, in agreement with earlier research (McKee et al., 1993; Livada and Assimakopoulos, 2007; Stagge et al., 2015). It is defined as follow (Eq. (2)) in terms of a frequency or prob­ ability density function: γx = 1 βαΓ (α)xα−1e−z/β, forx > 0 (2) In this, Γ(α) represents the gamma distribution function; x represents the rainfall; α is the shape parameter; and β is scale parameter. For a multiyear data, the maximum probability, α and β varies as per Eq. (3). α = 1 4A { 1 + ̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅ 1 + 4A 3 √ } , β = x α, whereA = lnx − ∑ln(X) n (3) Where, x is the mean rainfall, and n represents the number of mea­ surements. As the gamma function remains undefined for X = 0, and temporal rainfall data might include 0 rainfall, the cumulative proba­ bility becomes: H(x) = q + (1 −q)G(x) (4) The probability of 0 rainfall (q) in temporal dataset is computed by q = m n, where m denotes the occurrence of 0 rainfall in the temporal rainfall data. Further, H(x) can be converted into a z score value with a mean of ‘0′ and a unit variance, that represents the value (Gao et al., 2018; Pandey et al., 2021). The SPI value < −2.0 was considered as Extreme drought, −2.0 to −1.5 as Severe drought, −1.5 to −1.0 as Moderate drought, and −1.0 to + 1.0 as Normal year. 2.4. Identification of drought events and their characterization A ‘run’ is a set of observations of the same type that are preceded and succeeded by one or more unlike observations. Yevjevich (1967) pro­ posed the ‘run theory’ for identifying drought parameters and analyzing their statistical features in terms of run-length (drought duration), run sum (drought severity), and intensity. The choice of critical threshold level of the parameter is central to the run theory (Guerrero-Salazar and Yevjievich, 1975) which could be constant and/or changes with time. The threshold level in the present investigation was set at −1.0 (Pandey et al., 2021), with the royal blue and red color areas (Fig. 2) representing positive and negative mean monthly SPI values, respectively. When the SPI remains consistently < 0 or negative and achieves a factor/reading of −1.0 or less for at least two consecutive months, it is considered a drought event. A drought event begins when the SPI meets the above-mentioned criteria and cease when it rises above zero (SPI >0) (Stagge et al., 2015; Pandey et al., 2021). The run theory was used to quantify the three key features (namely duration, severity and intensity) of drought occurrences. Drought duration (DD) is the time between the start and end of a drought episode (in months). Drought severity (DS) is defined as the sum of all drought index values over the course of a drought event, and drought intensity (DI) is defined as the ratio of severity to drought duration (Tan et al.