 The coconut also showed a lower requirement of NPK (Fig. 3). The majority of crops exhibit a preference for acidic soil, whereas mango and orange trees thrive in soil that is neutral to slightly alkaline. 3.2. Comparative analysis of ML classification performance The study analyzed the performance trends of several machine learning algorithms, including random forest, decision tree, and support vector machine, in recommending the selection of agricultural and horticultural crops. The models were trained and fine- tuned according to the specific parameters detailed in the methodology section. Table-1 displays the predicted results for AC, HC, and mixed crop models, with regard to their test accuracy. The comparative performance of the models showed XGBoost demonstrated the highest test accuracy of 99.09 % and KNN demonstrated the lowest test accuracy of 94.45 % for agricultural crops. The model performances for horticultural crops exhibited almost equal levels of prediction accuracy, precision, and recall. In the context of using both AC and HC together in mixed crop modelling, it is noteworthy that the model yielded the highest accuracy of 98.5 %, which was comparatively lower than the accuracies achieved by using solely AC or HC in the models. The evaluation of different models demonstrated that the AC-XGBoost and HC-XGBoost model exhibited superior performance compared to the AC-KNN and HC-KNN model, which obtained a comparatively lower score (Fig. 06a-b, Fig.S2.4-2.5). When evaluating a mixed crop model, the XGBoost model also outperformed the other models. Specifically, it achieved a perfect AUC score of 1.0 for 16 out of 21 crops, while the remaining 5 crops achieved high AUC scores ranging from 0.97 to 0.99 (Fig. 6c). Despite the fact that the majority of models attained elevated micro and macro average AUC scores of 0.99, the XGBoost model performed better in accurately predicting the classification of individual crops (Fig.S2.6). 3.3. Analyses of confusion matrix to visualize the recommendation response of the models The evaluation of crop model performance is visualized through the analyses of confusion matrix. The matrix presented in Figs. 7–9 displays the true and predicted labels on the horizontal and vertical axes, respectively. The diagonal elements of the matrix represent the number of samples that were correctly identified. The AC model demonstrated superior recommendation performance for nearly all crops when utilizing XGBoost in comparison to other AC-ML models. However, XGBoost-AC model is not error free, it exhibited misclassification of black gram (5.8 %) as lentil and moth beans as shown in Fig. 7a. Similarly, the RF-AC model incorrectly suggested lentil (19.5 %) and moth beans (5 %) instead of black gram (Fig. 7b). This same model also exhibited misidentification of jute and lentil as rice and moth beans, respectively.