 The Committee has worked out the strategies for different agro-ecologies at block level. The block may have different farming situations such as upland, lowland, irrigated, shallow lowland, deepwater, etc. The administrators/implementing agencies can refer the ready reckoner to identify the agro-climatic zone of the block. Further, one can refer the recommendations for specific ecology under the block within the agro-climatic zone and farming situation to increase the farmers’ income. Besides the technological interventions in different farming situations, the following action points should go hand-in-hand for doubling the farmers’ income: (1) Value addition and market linkage for getting better price of the farm produce, (2) Enhancement of minimum support price by the Government, (3) Increasing subsidy and improving availability of farm inputs, (4) Insurance coverage for crops/animal/fisheries activities undertaken by the farmers, (5) Promotion of technologies by the line departments and development agencies and (6) development/modernization of infrastructure like markets, storage and processing units. Success Stories 1. Commercial Production of Fish Fries in Small Ponds Technology: For nursery pond one meter water depth, pH ranging between 7.5 to 8.5 is highly productive for spawn stocking (@ 3 lakhs/10 cents/cycle) and rearing. Survival and growth of spawn are influenced by quality and quantity of food available in the pond. To ensure healthy growth of spawn, artificial feeding is necessary and is restored from the next day after stocking. The most commonly used artificial feeds are groundnut oil cake, rice bran, coconut, mustard 449 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 cakes, etc. Finely powdered and sieved groundnut oil cake and rice bran mixed at 1:1 are used. It has a short culture period of 15 – 21 days and 4 culture cycles were possible during 4 months of monsoon. Agroclimatic Zone where the technology is successful: The technology is tested and found successful in North-Eastern Coastal Plain Zone of the state. Success: Fry yield was found to be 1 lakh/10 cents/crop. The total net income within 4 production cycles was Rs. 60,000/-. The poaching problem in the introduced system is almost nil as it deals with tiny fishes of 20-30 mm size (Fry). Total investment made by the farmer was Rs 20,000/- in 4 culture cycles and the B:C Ratio is found 3.0. As many as 400 numbers of small tanks with water spread area of 21 ha, involving 289 farmers, have been covered for fish fry production in the district. Farmers’ views: Sri Purna Chandra Majhi, Sri Sanjay Kumar Sahoo and Kirtan Majhi were some of the farmers who adopted the technology and found the technology to be simple and remunerative. Existing technology to be replaced: Practice of unscientific table size fish production solely for domestic consumption purpose is replaced by the current technology.