 Once scaling becomes an intentional focus, organizations can use various strategies tailored to their foundational strengths, available resources, partnerships, and context, including emerging political, cultural, and social opportunities. Effective scaling also requires stronger partnerships, stakeholder engagement, institutional support, and capacity building. For example, in early stages, knowledge-sharing can effectively spread Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA) practices. Later, well-evidenced interventions may be embedded in government policies, and market-based strategies developed to sustain impacts over the long term. SUMMARY Rainfed agriculture in India is a critical sector, covering half of the country’s cultivated area and contributing significantly to food production. However, it is highly vulnerable to climate variability, land degradation, and low productivity. Scaling up technology and knowledge dissemination is crucial for building resilience in these regions, addressing water management challenges, and enhancing productivity. ICAR-CRIDA’s initiatives, including Farmer FIRST, Model Village projects, and NICRA, demonstrate effective methods for introducing climate-resilient practices and improving livelihoods. Yet, barriers like inadequate technical options, insufficient funding, and limited private sector engagement persist, often slowing the adoption of essential innovations.To overcome these challenges, a multi-dimensional strategy is needed. This includes enhancing digital platforms for knowledge sharing, fostering public-private partnerships, and developing community-focused interventions. Stronger institutional support, targeted capacity building, and community involvement can drive broader adoption and sustainability of these solutions. By reframing objectives to prioritize resilience and inclusive growth, scaling efforts can support long-term productivity and stability for rainfed farmers in India’s diverse agro- ecological landscapes. *Corresponding author email: Kr.Shankar@icar.gov.in Table 1.