 Goat Management Systems in India yy Extensive System: This system includes free range, transhumance, pasture and range grazing management. The system is based on low resource input and low level of productivity. More than 80% population of goat is reared under extensive system. yy Semi-Intensive System: This system is combination of limited free-range grazing and stall- feeding. The optimum level of nutrition, which is better than that under extensive system are observed. The rearing system helps in substantial improvement in body weight gains, milk yield, wool yield and prolificacy. Overall, improvement in quantity and quality of meat production can be achieved by supplementing with concentrate mixtures along with cultivated leguminous fodders and tree leaves. yy Intensive system: This system includes grazing on developed pastures and/or complete stall- feeding on cultivated fresh or conserved fodders, crop residues and concentrates. Goats are quite capable of making efficient use of feed and fodder in stall feeding system as well for conversion into meat, milk and fibre. 2.3. Goat Genetic Resources in India India possesses 34 registered breeds of goats however, population of these breeds comprises <35% of the total goat population of the country. There is intermixing to a larger extent among the breeds in a region where two or more breeds exist. These goat breeds have evolved and developed by the goat farmers for different agro-climatic regions to meet out local demands of the particular region of the country. The goat breeds on the basis of agro-climatic regions are described as follows: 1. Northern Temperate Region: Chegu, Changthangi, and Gaddi. These breeds are medium in size, fiber-producing and also used for transportation of goods. The breeds Chegu and Changthangi produce finest quality of under coat called ‘Cashmere’ or ‘Pashmina’ beside meat. 2. North-Western Region: The popular breeds of this region are: Beetal, Jamunapari, Barbari, Sirohi, Marwari, Jakhrana, Surti, Gohilwadi, Kutchi, Zalawadi, Mehsana. Goats of this region are medium to large in size, dual purpose with special attribute of high milk yield. Several lesser known genetic groups/strains/breeds are also found in this region such as Bundelkhandi, Battisi, Totapari, etc. Gandhi volunteer... May 1946: Gandhi volunteers tending Mohandas Gandhi's goats on the grounds of his colony compound. (Photo by Margaret Bourke- White/The LIFE Picture Collection via Getty Images) Improvement in Goat Production for Sustainable Rural Livelihood 42 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 3. Southern Region: Goats of the Southern and Peninsular part of the country, have dual utility but with low in milk yield as compared to goats of north-western region. Sangamneri, Osmanabadi, Kanna-aidu, Malabari, KonkanKanyal, Berari and Black Attapady are the main breeds of goat of this region. 4. Eastern Region: Black Bengal is main breed of eastern region of India.