 First derivative spectral library after joining with soil data (b). Available Major Plant Nutrients (Kg/ha) by MIR and with traditional analyses (Black soil, Central India) Figure 2: Plots showing the distribution of SOC and pH in the calibration and validation datasets (Prediction values white, Recorded data- green) ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 27 sp., Jatropha curcas, etc.) were undertaken by the collaborators (CAFRI and GBPUA&T). About 1,30,000 Quality Planting Material (QPM) were produced and distributed to farmers by CAFRI, RVSKVV and GBPUA&T. ICRAF is analysing the value chain using the above interventions. Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Government of India and ICRAF initiated the action on following in association with above partners: yy Value chain analysis of QPM production and distribution of agroforestry species to identify required interventions. yy Facilitated formulation of guidelines to establish a “Production, Quality Control and Certification System for QPM” for agroforestry species. yy With collaboration of CAFRI, AICRP-AF, SAUs and other actors enabled private sector (nurseries, youth, women) to produce QPM. Agroforestry species domestication with intensification and diversification of agroforestry production systems: The socio- economic analysis of three systems, in a multi-layer/inter-cropping system with pineapple in Orissa was found to be most remunerative. Inter-cropping with (Ananas comosus, Curcuma amda, Curcuma longa and Maranta arundinacea) were tested in mango based (mango + Dalbergia sissoo and mango+ Gmelina arborea) agroforestry system. It was observed, pineapple was the best suitable crop to be included in the mango based agri-horti-silvicultural system. In collaboration with OUAT, ICRAF is further examining these results to upscale in larger areas. Enabling tribal communities of India to improve their livelihoods through agroforestry systems on a sustainable basis: The interventions were studied at two places, Ranchi (Jharkhand) and Nayagarh (Orissa) where maximum tribal farmers may be benefitted. Multi-tier horti-lac system comprising of lac as host plants and others like, semialata (Flemingia semialata) Figure 3: Identification of mango plantation using hyperspectral remote sensing (a) ground trothing, (b) mango tree on farmer field and (c) spectral signature of mango, Unnao, UP (a) (b) (c) ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 28 and ber (Ziziphus mauritiana) and fruit trees aonla (Emblica officinalis syn. Phyllanthus emblica), guava (Psidium guajava) and lime (Citrus aurantifolia) initiated to test their potential for enhancing the livelihood. This will continue as a collaborative work with IINRG, Ranchi.