 He found that the progress of the country lay in the improvement of the vast majority of its rural villages, development of rural economy, industry, and rural skills. Gandhiji felt that the only way of bringing hope of good living to the rural Indian people was by making the village the center-point for all economic programmes. Rural development, as outlined by Gandhiji, contained self-sufficiency, interdependence for one another’s needs, and the development of village industries. He wanted to bring about rural reconstruction with sound scientific, spiritual and cultural values and successfully implemented rural reform activities in 1935 through his 18-point Constructive Programme. Gandhiji identified the Adivasi’s as the original inhabitants and saviours of biodiversity and he said that the advanced community is duty- bound to contribute towards all-round development of the Adivasi communities in India and indirectly save the biodiversity. Gandhiji had cautioned the world very early about the evils of large-scale industrialization, which we are facing today. He visualized that mechanization would not only lead to massive urbanization, to unemployment but would also lead to the destruction of environment. His seminal work, Hind Swaraj, which was written a hundred years ago in 1909, cautioned the world of the dangers it is facing today such as environmental destruction and the threat to the planet. Regarding urbanization, Gandhiji expressed his views as follows: “It is a process of double drain from the villages”. He envisioned the formation of small communities that had to integrate with the environment, something that anticipated the philosophy of local food and local communities. Gandhiji’s vision was reflected in establishing in Village Panchayat through Article 40 of the Indian Constitution. This directly helped farmers in various ways- conservation of local biodiversity and development of community seed banks. The idea of Sarvodaya is also similar to that of a sustainable development and forms a part of environmental ethics. According to Gandhiji’s vision, Sarvodaya implied healthy development and environment that could evolve with man to ensure his harmonious co-existence with nature and other living beings. Gandhiji did not recognise separate rules for separate spheres of human life but saw all spheres in an integrated manner, which exemplifies best the human ecological perspective. What he preached and practiced correspond to what we today call eco-friendly measures and living in harmony with nature (https://www.mkgandhi.org/ebks/gandhiebooks. htm#environment ). 63 3.