 Students from Jorhat, Hisar, Palampur, Pantnagar, Udaipur and Ludhiana showed high external resilience in school, home, community and peer assets which covers caring relationship, high expectation and meaningful participation. Assessment of socio-economic status of 349 school dropout youth, showed that majority of the respondents belonged to lower middle income category. A Counseling centre was established at Hatichungi, Komar Gaon, AAU, Jorhat. ❑  INFORMATION, COMMUNICATION AND PUBLICITY SERVICE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 107 new varieties and technologies. ICAR /DARE websites: During the reported period more than 1,355 new pages were created and more than 1,451 pages were updated with latest inputs. Specific weather based agro- advisories and contingency plans for agricultural activities were updated on the websites regularly to benefit farmers and extension functionaries. Crucial advisories were developed and posted from time to time in view of natural calamities. Currently, DKMA is revisiting its strategies in the light of open access policy, quality policy and e-governance modules. The gestation period of knowledge and information products is being reduced by adopting innovative management practices and latest IT tools. Linkages are being developed with international organizations to project the Indian agricultural research on global fora. DKMA, with all its efforts, is sensitizing and catalyzing ICAR system towards a new information and communication regime ensuring outreach of agricultural research to its stakeholders. The ICAR website (www.icar.org.in) presents knowledge and information in bilingual mode (English and Hindi) for a wide range of stakeholders that include researchers, students, policy planners, farmers and civil society. The website is updated regularly with news, success stories, announcements, circulars, tenders and other relevant content. Currently, on an average more than three lakh hits per month from visitors across the globe are recorded with a significant percentage of new visitors. The ICAR website was updated on regular basis, 1,355 new pages were created, and visitors from 221 countries visited the website from across the globe; the top five countries include India, United States of America, Union Arab Emirates, United Kingdom and Phillipines. Under outreach programme, video films depicting successful technologies were produced and telecast over National and Lok Sabha channel. Dedicated radio (AIR) and television (Doordarshan) programmes on ICAR launched Facilitated Media Meets at ICAR institutes. E-publication platform The ICAR website also hosts e-publishing portal for textbooks (http://epubs.icar.org.in/ebooks) of the Council. The portal provides online manuscript submission, review and e-book hosting platform for authors, students, academicians. The portal also has catalogue of textbooks, etc.