 Once the spring reaches nadir, it rebounds and pushes the weight upward, thus pulling the piston downwards. Thus, one stroke is completed. The cycle continues and pressure is generated in the tank due to strokes of the piston. This pressure helps spray the liquid in the tank. The proposed cost of this machine is Rs 3,500. The advantages of the automatic spray pump are: (i) it does not require any extra energy or torque to operate the pump for spraying; (ii) comparative pump is available in the market except foot-sprayer developed by Shri Parbatbhai Vaghani of Gujarat, but operational mechanisms of both the pumps are different technically; and (iii) it saves the labour from tedious and tiresome process of manual stroking for operating the pump. There is scope to Shri Arvindbhai Patel Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2930 Hand-driven pump 2931 Bicycle-driven sprayer provide two spray nozzles to get double the output by increasing the pressure. Operator can cover two parallel rows simultaneously and thereby cut down the operation timing by half Keywords: compression sprayer, piston, stroke, nozzles, jerks Shri Gopalbhai Sutariya has developed a hand-driven pump for spraying chemicals and pesticide solutions. The rotary motion of wheels is used to generate pressure in the tank for spraying. About 40 litres barrel is mounted on the chassis of hand-driven body of the sprayer. It has an adjustable nozzle and spray boom, giving better performance. Keywords: spraying, pesticides, rotary motion The whole process of spraying is very tiresome and also leads to hand, back and neck pains with prolonged use for any scale of operation. Bicycle sprayer is a product, that has a potential to revolutionize the way farmers spray their crops, because it helps farmers to reduce cost, time and drudgery owing to its design, manoeuvrability and ease of use. Shri Mansukhbhai of Amreli, Saurashtra (Gujarat) has reversed the sprocket arrangement of cycle-chain drive to get the required pressure for spraying. Pedals are replaced by piston rods, connected with brass cylinder pumps on either side. Movement of bicycle builds up pressure for spraying. Bicycle sprayer is an assembly of a modified sprocket -pump assembly, tank and adjustable sprayer boom, which can be mounted on any bicycle available in the market. The forward and backward movement Shri Gopalbhai Sutariya Shri Mansukhbhai Jagani, Jay Khodiyar Welding Works, Mota Devaliya, Babra, Amreli, Saurashtra (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad 380 015 Content FARM IMPLEMENTS Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2932 Jayant sprayer of bicycle through a chain and modified sprocket arrangement are transferred to a pump assembly, which pumps air into the tank to generate pressure for spraying through the sprayer boon nozzles.