 However, they were not having any experience or skill of this venture. It was a new venture in this village since nobody was involved in mushroom production. A training programme was organized by ICAR-VPKAS, Almora for the farmers of village Uderkhani at KVK (ICAR-VPKAS), Kafligair, Bageshwar under SCSP Programme. Demonstrations of button mushroom were also laid down at farmers’ field. The application After getting training on mushroom production and demonstrations of button mushroom, Mr. Nandan Prasad started to take keen interest in mushroom production. He started this venture with 500 kg pasteurized compost in an abandoned room after proper cleaning and sanitation. He remained in touch with the experts and performed all the processes. The close monitoring, awareness, zeal to grow a new product of the area and sincerity led to produce a bumper crop of button mushroom and Mr. Nandan Prasad produced 100 kg saleable button mushroom. It was the first mushroom production in the area. The impact He sold his produce at an average price of 170 kg in the nearby market and earned 17,000 from a very short span of time. Thus, he could develop the belief among the fellow farmers about this new commodity of the area. Now, he has become the lead mushroom grower of the area and many other farmers are approaching him to know and adopt the mushroom farming. In the words of Mr Nandan Prasad, “Mushroom production is a profitable venture especially for the marginal farmers, it is safe from the two major threats of hill agriculture, viz. wild animals and weather vagaries.” Dr H S Gupta, Former DG, BISA; Dr J C Rana, National Coordinator, UN Environment GEF project and Country Representative, India Office of Alliance of Biodiversity International & CIAT, New Delhi; Dr Lakshmi Kant, Director, ICAR- VPKAS visiting the mushroom production room of Mr Nandan Prasad. SUCCESS STORY Escalating Horse Gram Production Through Improved Technologies for Livelihood Security Among Hill Farmers in Uttarakhand The challenge Horse gram is one of the major kharif pulse in North Western Himalayan hills particularly, in Uttarakhand. It plays an integral role in hill agriculture as well as provide livelihood and food security to the millions of rural inhabitants. Due to non-availability of quality seeds of improved varieties, improper crop management, poor agricultural mechanization and post-harvest processing, farmers of the region were not able to reap the potential benefits from its cultivation. The solution Improved high yielding cultivars of horse gram (VL Gahat 15 and VL Gahat 19) have appreciable yield potential of 800-1,000 q/ha as compared to local landraces along with resistance against wilt, anthracnose and other prevalent diseases. These varieties also have suitability for organic farming conditions.