 However, it is my conviction that if there is no deviation or dilution of these basic principles and if we learn to labour and to wait, the initiation of the Agricultural Research Service by ICAR will be regarded in the years to come as a significant milestone in the organisation of science in India. M. S. SWAMINATHAN New Delhi Director-General October 2, 1977 Indian Council of Agricultural Research CONTENTS Preface to the Second Edition .. (iii) Preface to the First Edition .. (v) 1. Personnel Policy .. 1 2. Salient Features of the A.R.S. .. 4 3. Service Rules for the A.R.S. of the I.C.A.R. .. 8 4. Constitution and Maintenance of the Service .. 24 5. Postings, Transfers, Training and Deputation .. 29 6. Research Management Positions .. 36 Appendices I. List of approved Disciplines for Purposes of Recruitment to the A.R.S. .. 40 II. Terms and Conditions of Appointment to Grades S-2 and S-3 of the A.R.S. by Open Advertisement .. 42 III. Disciplinary/Appellate Authorities in I.C.A.R. ., 46 IV. Criteria and Methods of Five-Yearly Assessment for Scientists of the A.R.S. .. 48 1. PERSONNEL POLICY THE Indian Council of Agricultural Research was established in 1929 as a Society following a recommendation of the Royal Commission on Agriculture for a national co-ordinating agency in the area of agricultural research. Until 1965, the ICAR functioned largely as an apex co-ordina- ting body financing ad-hoc research projects mainly through the revenues obtained from the Agricultural Produce Cess Act of 1940. In 1965, the Government of India entrusted to the ICAR Society the responsibility of managing research institutions in agriculture, animal husbandry, and fishe- ries. Thus, a network of research institutes located in different parts of the country was merged with the ICAR, so that problems of agricultural research could be viewed in their totality. In addition, the ICAR was also entrusted with the responsibility of fostering and supporting the growth and development of Agricultural Universities. Thus the ICAR occupies a unique position among the major scientific organisations of our country in that it has concurrent responsibility both for research and education. Utilizing the opportunity provided by its charter and structure to look at farming systems in an integrated manner, the ICAR has sponsored a large number, of All-India Co-ordinated Research Projects which bring together scientists working in well-defined areas into a working partner- ship. These projects integrating different disciplines and institutions/uni- versities constitute an effective national grid of co-ordinated experiments. The ICAR has also continued its earlier practice of supporting ad-hoc research schemes from its cess funds. Its charter includes extension educa- tion which is carried out through a network of national demonstration, mini-kit demonstrations, operational research projects, pilot projects, and other mechanisms.