 Nearly 31% trained rural youth established micro- entrepreneurial units in rural areas which benefited them to get net income ranged from ` 40,000 to ` 238,000/unit/annum across the different entrepreneurial units. National Innovations on Climate Resilient Agriculture: Technology Demonstration Component (TDC) of National Innovations on Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA) is being implemented by KVKs in 121 vulnerable districts belonging to 28 states and 1 union territory. Demonstrations of proven location specific technologies related to natural resource management (NRM), crop production, livestock and fisheries were taken up for enhancing adaptation gains and imparting resilience against drought, flood, cyclone, heat stress, coastal salinity, etc. During the year, 13,210.95 ha and 9,967.15 ha was covered through 15,678 and 23,229 demonstrations in NRM and crop production modules, respectively. Besides, 12,754 demonstrations covering 720.51 ha area and 81,741 animals were also carried out on livestock and fisheries technologies. KVKs conducted 1,414 training programmes and 3,923 extension activities on successful climate resilient agriculture practices covering 38,170 and 77,639 farmers, respectively. The focus under TDS- NICRA over the last three years was on expanding the project activity to form NICRA village clusters and to saturate the adopted clusters with at least one successful resilient technology from NRM, crop and livestock modules. Emphasis under the project was also on scaling up of the climate smart technologies/ practices through stronger convergence with district development schemes. Skill development training in agriculture: As per priority of the Government of India, KVKs/ICAR Institutes/Agricultural Universities organize National Skills Qualifications Framework (NSQF) aligned skills training programmes of 200 h or more duration with funding support from Department of Agriculture, Success Story Sunhemp seed production—Sustainable crop intensification In Nacharam NICRA cluster villages of Khammam district, Telangana, farmers leave their fields fallow after kharif paddy due to low access to water during rabi. KVK, Khammam (Wyra) introduced seed production of sunhemp to intensify cropping with harvested rain water in farm ponds. This practice ensured additional net income of ` 30,750/ha and the practice was adopted by 60% farmers in the NICRA adopted village, and has scope for spread to all farm holdings with similar situation. Sunhemp being a legume enriches the soil and gives good yield even under limited moisture availability and has the additional advantage of guaranteed market for seed in Telangana. Thus, sustainable crop intensification with sunhemp after paddy ensured additional income and stabilized livelihood security even during climatically vulnerable years. TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, DEMONSTRATION AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 148 Cooperation and Farmers’ Welfare.