 In the wake of a recent pandemic crisis, these words of wisdom are more relevant than ever before and likely to have attracted wide public health attention. Together, the G20 nations account for around 80% of global economic output, nearly 75% of global exports, and about 60% of the world’s population. The G20 countries are looking for guidance from the One Health Quadripartite in operationalizing One Health (OH) approaches. Amidst the surge of COVID-19 pandemic, the leaders from G20 nation during 2022 at Bali, Indonesia affirmed commitment to tackle global challenges and lay a foundation for strong, sustainable, balanced, and inclusive global economic growth. The Indonesian G20 Presidency was supported by the Quadripartite to develop the Lombok G20 One Health Policy brief. Multiple consultations with governments and input from the OHHLEP recommended to raise awareness and advocacy for OH priorities, to identify gaps and opportunities and also facilitate OH research, knowledge and capacity. The Bali declaration primarily thrusted upon the protection and development of resilient economic responses and co-operation, reinforcing the dialogues to promote food Indian Farming 73 (06): 21-24; June 2023 Indian Farming 22 June 2023 and energy security, and thereby a sustainable market growth, promoting innovative financing sources, and instruments, and eventually towards the faster accomplishment of sustainable development goals. The declaration reaffirmed facilitation of One Health research, knowledge sharing, capacity building and voluntary knowledge transfers by creating an enabling environment in which learning research and knowledge sharing can thrive. This involves investing in research and expert researchers to increase our collective understanding, and knowledge on One Health contexts. With the influence of the G20 Presidency, India led a global call to action for AMR, zoonoses, climate change and One Health. The tag line “One Earth, One Family, One Future” itself embodies Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam. Whereas, the G20 Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists (MACS) held at Varanasi in 2023 urged the coordinated R&D efforts to provide nutrient rich varieties of food crops for the benefit of farmers and consumers. While reiterating the thrust areas of Bali declaration, the Varanasi meet also highlighted the need for resilient agriculture and food systems by providing solutions for climate change adaptation and mitigation without adverse effects on food security, protecting and enhancing biodiversity, and thereby helping to improve productivity and profitability sustainably in global agri-food value chains. Besides, co-operation for digital transformation of agriculture and digital technologies for food production and safety; climate resilience, circular economy principles for preventing food loss and waste, need to be considered.