83 ±4.70 U/mL, with a signiﬁcance of p < 0.05. 10 D. Kumar, S.N. Sinha and K. Vasudev et al. / Data in Brief 55 (2024) 110632 Statistical Analysis The qualitative data collected in the study was statistically analysed using a independent t-test to determine mean differences between the exposed and control groups. In addition, pes- ticide concentrations, DAP metabolites and AChE levels were compared between the two groups. Statistical signiﬁcance was determined at p < 0.05. Data analysis was performed using IBM SPSS version 29 software and results were presented as mean ± standard deviation (SD). Limitations A limitation of using questionnaire surveys have self-report symptoms is the possibility of bias if respondents exaggerate their adherence to safety measures against pesticide exposure. In addition, the health symptoms reported may not be directly related to pesticide exposure. Nev- ertheless, the data have notable strengths. The sample size is substantial and includes a range of exposure levels in both agricultural and non-agricultural areas in 15 villages. In addition, reliable data were collected on demographic and socioeconomic factors as well as self-reported pesticide exposure. Ethical Statement Ethical approval for the collection of human blood and urine samples was obtained from the Institutional Ethics Committee of the ICMR-NIN Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Govern- ment of India (ECR/35/Inst/AP/2013), and the Ethics Committee of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approved the study protocol under reference number NIN Protocol 16/II/2019. Informed consent was obtained from all donors who provided blood and urine samples. Informed Consent Statement Informed consent was obtained from all subjects involved in the study. CRediT Author Statement Dileshwar Kumar : Conceptualization, Methodology, Data curation, Formal analysis, Software, Validation, Investigation, Writing- Reviewing and Editing. Sukesh Narayan Sinha : Supervision, Conceptualization, Writing- Reviewing and Editing. Kasturi Vasudev : sample collection, Domain Expect, Validation, Writing- Reviewing and Editing. Rajesh Kumar K : Reviewing and editing, Sample collection. Gouda Balaji : Sample collection. Sathish Kumar Mungamuri : Writing- Re- viewingand Editing. Vakdevi Validandi : Writing- Reviewing and Editing. Data Availability Data for publication (Original data) (Mendeley Data). Acknowledgements The authors would like to express our sincere gratitude to the participants of this study and the medical staff who contributed to its success. We would also like to thank the Department D. Kumar, S.N. Sinha and K. Vasudev et al. / Data in Brief 55 (2024) 110632 11 of Health Research Minister of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), New Delhi, India (grant numbers - DHR-ICMR/GIA/12/18/2020 ) for funding this study, and Dr. R.