 At the beginning of the 20th Century, India was heavily relying on the marine catch to cater to the fish demand. Over the years, the country has not only been able to tap a significant share of the marine potential yield of 5.31 million tonnes, the fish production in the inland sector has also significantly increased. The total fish production has achieved an almost 18-folds increase in the last 70 years, from 0.75 million tonnes in 1950 to 13.76 million tonnes at present. The country has become the second-largest aquaculture producer of the globe and also occupies 3rd position in the total fish production. In the last four decades, aquaculture in India has made a paradigm shift from the homestead activity of 1970’s to the technology-driven commercial enterprise today and has been the forefront of developmental avenues in the country. The sector is poised to shoulder the responsibility of catering to the increased protein hunger of the future. Hunt for increasing fish production has led to a marked increase in aquaculture activities in all the three sectors, i.e., freshwater, brackishwater and marine, although the last one is a late entrant. Ponds and tanks, which form the basis of aquaculture development, are the rural resources and as such contribute to improving the rural economy, a concept supporting the Gandhian principle. Aquaculture itself embodies a wide range of activities in the entire value chain, starting from seed production through farming to the marketing of the products and their post-harvest value addition. In every point, it involves sub-sectors which provide scope for farmers and entrepreneurial development. The ICAR, with its series of timely technological interventions and with due support of the State line departments has significantly contributed to all such development. Discussed in the following pages, some of the epoch- making technologies of ICAR related to fisheries and aquaculture that have been developed, time tested and demonstrated to transform the fishery sector over the years taking the fish farmers and entrepreneurs on board. 2.1. Technology Development in Freshwater Aquaculture 2.1.1. Induced breeding and quality seed production Successful induced breeding of the Indian major carps in 1957 developed by the erstwhile Pond Culture Division of ICAR-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute (CIFRI), presently ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture (CIFA), is considered as a revolutionary technology that has transformed the entire aquaculture sector to a vibrant enterprise. It was followed by the development of a sequel of activities and packages of practices over the last five decades. These include the development of different hatchery technologies and models, beginning from earthen pits to the latest circular eco-hatchery model, ampouleing of pituitary extract, refinement of breeding protocol, use of synthetic inducing agents, better broodstock 51 management techniques, etc.