 This method integrates soil health management, mycorrhizal symbiosis, and efficient cutting multiplication. By continuing with host plants and providing favourable conditions, an effective and self- sustaining population of beneficial arbuscular mycorrhizae fungi can be established on the farm to improve crop yields. Point to be considered while applying Arbuscular Mycorrhizae under nursery conditions y Maintain adequate soil moisture for mycorrhizal establishment. Well-drained and sterile soil mix helps to promote mycorrhizal colonization. y Do not use contaminated or low-quality inoculum, as it may introduce pathogens or ineffective mycorrhizal species. y Do not apply mycorrhizae in soils with high salinity, as it may negatively impact their effectiveness. y Refrain from using fungicides immediately following the application of mycorrhizae, as they can hinder the establishment of mycorrhizal fungi. In such cases, re-inoculation may be necessary to reintroduce arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi. y Do not excessively fertilize the plants, as this may reduce their reliance on mycorrhizal associations. y Do ensure that the soil pH is within the optimal range for the establishment of mycorrhizal fungi. CONCLUSION AM inoculation with potting mixture improves the root and shoot growth, and increase the colonization of black pepper cuttings. This method integrates soil health management, mycorrhizal symbiosis, and efficient cutting multiplication. By consistently creating favourable conditions, it is possible to establish a healthy and self- sustaining population of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi on the farm. Additionally, this practice helps reduce nutrient loss and maintains soil fertility, making it an effective effort to mitigate climate change. For further information, please contact: 1Senior Scientist, 2Principal Scientist, 3Head (Crop Production & PHT) ICAR-Indian Institute of Spices Research, Marikunnu (PO), Kozhikode 673 012 January–February 2024 17 Technology Integrated Nutrient Management Technology for Kamalam Fruit Cultivation Dragon fruit or Kamalam (Hylocereus spp.) has been considered as a potential fruit crop in India. Application of fertilizer in several split doses at specific plant growth stages is important considering its shallow root system, continuous luxurious growth habit of flashy stems, heavy bearing nature, and loss of applied fertilizes due to high rainfall. The paper discusses the planting methods and integrated nutrient management for the cultivation of Kamalam fruit. Biswajit Das1, H Lembisana Devi, Bapi Das, A G Devi, Vinay Singh, Pradip Sarkar, Ashima Suklay Baidya K AMALAM fruit (Hylocereus spp), belongs to the Cactaceae family, also known as pitaya fruit, pitahaya fruit, strawberry pear and in India it is known as Kamalam. Semi-epiphytic cacti, climbing in nature and ariel roots are also common. Stems are triangular, flashy, succulent with wavy ribbed margins, Dark –light green in colour.