 of India (a) Programme Division module (b) DDO module (c) PAO module (d) Pension module (e) GPF & HR module (f) Receipts including GSTN (g) Annual Financial Statements (h) Cash Flow Management (i) Interface with non-civil ministries 2. Non-Tax Receipt Portal. Other Departmental Initiatives To leverage the capabilities of PFMS, several other departments have approached PFMS for developing utilities for their departmental need as follows:- (i) Interfaces for MHA (Foreigners Division) Monitoring of Agencies receiving fund under FCRA (ii)CBDT PAN Validation (iii)GSTN bank account validation Implementation Strategy An Action Plan has been prepared and approved by Ministry of Finance for phased implementation of Public Financial Management System (PFMS). Improved Financial Management through:  Just in Time(JIT) release of funds  Monitoring of use of funds including ultimate utilization Strategy:  Universal roll-out of PFMS which inter alia includes:  Mandatory registration of all Implementing Agencies (IA) on PFMS and  Mandatory use of Expenditure Advance & Transfer (EAT) Module of PFMS by all IAs I. Implementation Strategy for Central Sector (CS) schemes/transaction Activities to be completed  Mandatory registration and use of EAT module by IAs  Mapping of all relevant information of Schemes  Uploading of budget of each scheme on PFMS  Identify implementation hierarchy of each scheme  Integration of System Interface of specific schemes with PFMS e.g. NREGASoft, AwasSoft  Deployment and training of trainers 72 II. Implementation Strategy for Central Assistant to State Plan (CASP) Activities to be undertaken by states  State Treasury Integration with PFMS  Registration of all SIAs on PFMS (1st level and below)  Mapping of state schemes with corresponding central schemes  Configuration of State schemes on PFMS  Configuring State Schemes components  Identify and configure hierarchy of each state scheme  Integration of PFMS with schemes specific software application  Deployment and training of trainers  Continuous support for implementation At present, all 10 (Ten) Pay & Accounts Offices of M/o Agriculture and Farmers Welfare are functioning successfully on PFMS. All payments are routed through PFMS and e-payments being directly credited to the beneficiary’s account. I. CDDO Module of PFMS: Ministry of Finance had decided to universalize the use of PFMS to cover all transactions/payments of the Central Government. Accordingly, Office of CGA has extended the functionality of making e-payment through digital signature to the cheque drawing & disbursing officers (CDDOs) through CDDO Module of PFMS.CDDO Module has been implemented in all CDDOs of M/o Agriculture & Farmers Welfare. FAQs on CDDO Module are available at website link http://cga.nic.in//Page/FAQs.aspx. II. Employees Information System (EIS) Module: This is part of PFMS system and has the complete employee’s information relating to generation of salary bill.