 The increase in cost is due to the fact that the collection of seed decreases as the harvesting times increases. Market for Makhana Makhana is an aquatic crop of eastern countries like Japan, Korea, Taiwan and India. In India, about 80% of Makhana comes from Bihar. About 50,000 tonnes of Makhana are produced annually worth ` 550 crores in market but, the actual data is still unknown. Due to its high protein and low fat content, Makhana has a huge demand in India as well as in other countries. About 80% of the Makhana grown in India comes from Bihar which is the only source of income to the rural community, i.e. Mallah. The major consumers of Makhana are United States followed by United Kingdom and Canada. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Abhijit Khadatkar (Scientist), ICAR-Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh 462 038. *Corresponding author email: abhijitnu2@gmail.com Table 1. Cost economics of Makhana cultivation grown in ponds S. No. Item Cost (`/ha) A Cost of cultivation (incudes rent, seed required, interculture, harvesting, transportation, etc) 50040 B Output: (average seed yield-1.8 t/ha and rate `55/kg) 99000 C Net return/ha (A-B) 48960 Indian Horticulture 32 A RID is a term applied to land that is dry, parched and often devoid of vegetation. It is usually applied to a climate or region where rainfall is barely sufficient to support vegetation. Rajasthan is a land of diversities. However, desert remains dominant, besides the mountains. India arid zone covers seven states viz. Rajasthan (62%), Gujarat (19.4%), Haryana (6.3%), Punjab (5.6%), Maharashtra (4.7%), Karnataka (3.1%) and Andhra Pradesh (1%). The cold arid zone is found at Laddakh of Jammu and Kashmir. The arid zones are characterized by scare, highly erratic and low rainfall days per year. Extreme variation in annual temperature (-2.50 C in winter and 49.90 C in summer), high potential evaporation rate (6 mm/day) and wind velocity (30 km/hr) are other characteristics. The whole tract of Rajasthan desert is sandy with unfavourable physical condition of soil and ground water. In general, the soils are poor in organic matter and high infiltration rate (15-30 cm/hr). The coarse textured soils of sandy plains are called as ‘Desert Soils’. Jodhpur and Barmer district of Rajasthan have the largest duration of sunshine hours (9.30 hr/day). Rajasthan is endowed with very strong natural resources base. Arid fruits and vegetables are chief source of supply during seasonal short falls or hunger periods at the beginning of the rainy seasons, before the crops are ready to harvest or during famine period. The khejri is known as Kalp Taru in Thar Desert in Rajasthan. The oldest name of this plant is Mimosa cineraria (Linn.) and later called as Prosopis spicigera which was validated by the Code of Botanical Nomenclature ‘Prosopis cineraria’ (Linn.) Macbride. It is also described as Mimosa suma or Acacia suma by some European Sanskrit Scholars.