 This database was compiled using numerous sources, including research institutes, UN agencies, non-governmental organisations, insurance companies, and press agencies. Although 2009 was one of India’s worst drought years, no damage was recorded in this national-level database. This demonstrates Fig. 4. Intra-annual climate variability and trend over the baseline reference period (1981–2019). K.P. Bharambe et al. Climate Services 32 (2023) 100415 11 that it is crucial to conduct regional level drought analysis and impact assessments. To further understand the nature of droughts, we estimated decadal variations in dry and wet episodes in each sub-basin in terms of occurrence number, duration, frequency, and magnitude of severity and intensity of droughts over each sub-basin of GRB. Drought characteristics – Variability and change using theory of runs The 12-month SPEI drought indices were used to assess the spatial and temporal changes in drought characteristics. To understand in detail the variations over time and space, we analysed the drought charac­ teristics using past and present reference timeframes (Fig. 11). The results of drought persistent and nature showed that, on average, the number of drought occurrences increased during the present decade (2011–2019) compared to the past three decades (1981–2010). There­ fore, the estimated probability of decadal drought occurrence increased from 10% to 17% from the past to the current decade. Drought severity also increased in the present reference time, which indicated that the drought intensity increased over the GRB (i.e. a more disastrous nature of drought was observed, which is expected to increase in future years). Similar results of the probability of increased drought severity in the future over the GRB have been reported by Kumar et. al., 2021a. However, the changes in the frequency and characteristics of droughts in the future had not been fully investigated at the sub-basins and districts level over the Godavari River Basin. Therefore, we used the future warming scenarios of d4PDF data to study the outlook of future drought perception and potential socio-economic impacts. We also investigated the effects of anthropogenic warming on the projected changes in the frequency of droughts over the sub-basins of GRB (Fig. 12). Future drought frequency showed an overall increase under both scenarios compared to the past reference period. Among the drought categories, the frequency of severe-to-extreme droughts is expected to increase continuously under both warming scenarios over the near future (2031–50) and far future (2051–2100), whereas total droughts (including moderate, severe, and extremes droughts) is expected to significantly increase in the near future under the optimistic scenario and slightly decrease in the far future under the pessimistic scenario (Fig. 12-A and B).