 *Corresponding author’s e-mail: swarna@millets.res.in Small millet + Pigeon pea intercropping Finger millet + Soybean intercropping For obtaining copies: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@icar.org.in Post-harvest Management and Processing of Fruits and Vegetables Post-harvest management technology offers promising option for increasing production of vegetables and fruits quantity-wise and also in maintaining quality of the products. It involves all the activities that occur after production or harvesting of commodities, including procurement, removal of field heat, sorting, grading, packaging, storage, transportation, primary and secondary processing and marketing of agricultural products from farm-gate to distributors. This book is an effort to document vast available knowledge on the various aspects of post-harvest management and processing, and it will prove worthy for teachers, students and extension workers for understanding post-harvest management and processing of fruits and vegetables. It has 16 chapters covering storage, packaging, advanced preservation technology and value-addition of fruits and vegetables. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Size : Royal Octavo (16 cm x 24 cm) No. of pages : i-viii + 250 Price : Rs 350 Postage : Rs 50 Binding : Paper Back ISBN No. : 978-81-7161-115-4 Indian Farming 64 January 2023 Emerging pests of millets and their management G Shyam Prasad*, J Stanley, KS Babu, A Kalisekar, P G Padmaja and B Subbarayudu ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Telangana, Hyderabad 500 030 There are about 150 insect pests reported in millets out of which shoot flies, stem borers and earhead midges are considered as major pests. In India, yield losses of 10–20% have been reported in millets due to insect pests. Shoot flies and stem borers are associated with millets and cause huge damage apart from many sucking pests. Few pests are newly observed attacking millets and few minor pests have become major in some regions. For most of the recently recorded pests, information on factors responsible for their outbreak, bionomics, yield losses etc is needed before planning their control operations. As an immediate remedy, chemicals have been used mainly on high yielding varieties and hybrids. However, a combination of cultural practices and resistant cultivars has proved to be effective. Keywords: Insect pests, Integrated pest management, Millets, Sorghum T HE overall incidence and damage by different pests varies in time and space and is reflected in low grain yields at farmer´s fields. Some insect pests are associated with millet crops whereas pests like white grubs are specific to some region (Table 1). Sporadic attacks of blister beetles, armyworms, grasshoppers, chinch bugs, leaf beetles, head caterpillars and head bugs result in severe yield losses in certain seasons. Table 1.