 — Wee ( Hany ) aaa faum, feftea dare arart Wart Wat, 20, ayiten tre, ae fareit-110001 Government of India Ministry of Communications Department of Telecommunications Digital Communications Commission Sanchar Bhawan, 20, Ashoka Road, New Delhi - 110001 Ph.: 011-23714666, Fax : 011-23755172 E-mail : members-dot@nic.in Ajay Kumar Sahu, Its Member (Services) & Ex-officio Secretary to Govt. of India Message | am happy to note that Telecommunication Engineering Centre (TEC) and Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) are jointly bringing out a Technical Report on Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming. Traditional farming methods are increasingly facing limitations in meeting the demands of a growing population amidst changing environmental conditions. Conventional agriculture often relies on intuition and historical practices rather than data-driven decision-making, leading to inefficiencies in resource utilization and productivity. Moreover, factors such as unpredictable weather patterns, soil degradation and water scarcity further exacerbate the challenges faced by farmers. In response to these challenges, the concept of Digital Agriculture has emerged as a promising solution by leveraging cutting-edge technologies such as the Internet of Things (loT), artificial intelligence (Al)/ Machine learning and precision farming techniques. | am delighted to share that this technical report has elaborated the emerging technologies, standards and loT use cases in smart agriculture. This document is good reference for agricultural scientists, academia, startups and other related stakeholders as it gives the meaningful insights of latest technologies being used in agricultural domain for improving the productivity amid growing demand for food. | appreciate the efforts put in by Telecommunication Engineering Centre and Indian Council of Agricultural Research in bringing out this report. | also congratulate loT division, TEC for all their hard work and best wishes for the future. i | (Ajay Kumar Sahu) gta faery TRIPTI SAXENA hte pining a aftes sua uetese wa Wye ? Govt. of India Department of Telecommunications Telecom Engineering Centre Khurshid Lal Bhawan, Janpath, New Delhi-110001 Sr. Deputy Director General & Head Foreword TEC is the National Standardization Body (NSB) for telecommunication in India and the national enquiry point for WTO-TBT (Technical Barrier to Trade) for telecom sector. TEC has also been mandated to interact with various international standardization bodies like ITU, APT, ETSI, IEEE, oneM2M, 3GPP etc. for standardization works. TEC takes up development of standards based on study, continuous participation/ submitting contributions in the meetings of standardization bodies and interaction with stakeholders. The oneM2M Release 2 and Release 3 specifications have been adopted as National Standards by TEC. TEC has released twenty-two Technical Reports in loT/M2M domain covering various verticals viz.