 This new frame is successfully used for uprooting of groundnut pods and reaking of hard soil. He is still trying to make such a frame that can be used for all operations which are done by using conventional 'santi' now-a-days.//Some of the farmers had emanded this type of implement after watching at Shri gravat's field. Even scientists of Gujarat Agricultural Unversity, agreed that it required comparatively less draft power because of heels and light weight of the main frame. Especially in groundnut harvesting, the pods remain undisturbed on ground because only the blades and coulters come in contact with land (Pikhor, Gujarat). Agraavat (1992b) 122 Blade for groundnut harvesting Farmers use a long iron blade in the 'Santi' for uprooting of upper portion of rhizomes with pods.Sometimes, the whole plant is uprooted and gets stuck to the blade for a short distance instead of getting cut at a certain depth. This happens generally due to the bluntness of the blade. Twin blade used by Agraavat (1992a) 138 FARM IMPLEMENTS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference the barber triggered in Shri Agravat's mind the idea of using thin and sharp blades of iron pressed by two strong and comparatively thicker plates of iron. The blade is pressed in between two guard plates with the help of nut bolts on both the ends in such a way that its sharp working edge remains slightly ahead than the edges of the guard plates. It can cut the plant easily. This blade can be sharpened very easily after removing the guard plates because of its lightness and thinness (Junagadh, Gujarat). 123 Collection of leftover groundnut pods after harvesting In Saurashtra, groundnut is harvested by cutting roots below the soil by harrowing. As the soil is usually dry and hard at the time of harvesting, the rootlets holding the pods often tend to break. This problem is aggravated further if the last spell of rain before harvesting fails. Many local artisans have tried to solve this problem, but a satisfactory solution is yet to be found. An iron strip with rings on one edge and fixed it on the dorsal side of the blade of harrow is used for the groundnut harvesting. Barbed iron wires are tied to the rings. The width of the iron strip matches the width of the root zone. The strip is fixed to the blade in such a way that iron wires penetrate the soil in root region during the harrowing operation. The harrowing is carried out in the fallow field after harvesting the groundnut. These iron wires pull out the isolated pods left behind in the soil to the surface. These pods are then collected manually. This external attachment has been gaining popularity in Kunkavav Taluka over the last two years. The modified harrow costs a mere Rs 60 - 70 more than the common harrow (Amreli, Gujarat).