 In arid growing regions, the use of plastic mulch in conjunction with drip irrigation may result in acceptable weed control without the use of herbicides. Many organic growers depend exclusively on manual or mechanical weeding methods. It has been found that the use of subsurface drip irrigation in conjunction with precision cultivation technologies can result in complete weed control on an organic farm in an environment that receives 25 cm or more of rain on a regular basis, during the growing season. Integrated weed management: The goal of integrated weed management is to maintain manageable weed densities by preventing weed shifts to more difficult-to-control species and managing weed biodiversity. It emphasizes preventing weed reproduction and establishment, as well as minimizing weed competition with crops. Preventive measures are pre-requisite for weed Pigeonpea in narrow bed with residue retention Greengram in narrow bed with wheat residue Pigeonpea in flat bed with residue retention Greengram in broad bed with wheat residue Source: Authors’ research farm Indian Farming 6 July 2023 control, and mechanical and cultural weeding should be used in pulse crops based on their suitability to local conditions. Herbicides used indiscriminately may have a negative impact on soil microflora, produce quality, and human and animal health. Herbicide resistance in weed populations is a growing source of concern for growers. Over 400 biotypes of resistant weeds have been discovered worldwide. As a result, integrated weed management could boost pulse production while minimizing environmental impact. Integrating herbicides with non-monetary, low-input, low-cost resource conservation techniques such as zero tillage, change in establishment methods, line sowing, FIRB sowing, good water and fertilizer management, soil solarization, stale seed bed, crop residue incorporation, mulching, timeliness of operations, and other cultural methods could be a component of integrated weed management. It has been shown to be more effective than any single method in reducing weed growth in crop land. Most pulse crops use an integrated weed management approach that includes pre- emergence herbicide application followed by mechanical weeding after about a month of sowing. Integrated weed management has the potential to increase productivity and profitability by making better use of resources and suppressing Table 2. Integrated weed management options in pulses Pulse crop Integrated weed management options Chickpea Pendimethalin (PE) at 0.75 kg/ha fb one hand-weeding at 45 DAS Pendimethalin (PE) 1.0 kg/ha fb hand-weeding at 30 DAS Lentil Pendimethalin (PE) 0.75 kg/ha fb hand-weeding Pea Pendimethalin (PE) 1.0 kg/ha fb hand-weeding at 30 DAS Greengram Imazethapyr at 100 g/ha at 20 DAS fb 1 hand-weeding at 40 DAS Pigeonpea Raised bed planting + PE application of pendimethalin at 1.