 Social science: The frequency of climatic hazards such as droughts, floods, heat waves and cold waves has increased in the recent past and is predicted to increase in the future, that will affect the performance of agriculture and livelihood of millions of people. In India, the climatic hazards are estimated to reduce agricultural growth by about one-fourth. Keeping in view the current resource constraints, particularly the water in the Bundelkhand region, sustainable cropping pattern, and crop-livestock mix were envisaged. A goal programming model was developed to maximize net returns and minimize water use with set of physical, economic and environmental constraints. A composite agricultural sustainability indicator (CASI) was designed especially suitable for the rice-wheat production system. The index covers four broad dimensions, viz. soil, water, ecological and economic encompassing 79 indicators. The barometer so developed was applied to gauge the sustainability of Trans Gangetic plains of India. The trends in scientific publications of emerging technologies such as synthetic biology and artificial intelligence in agriculture were studied. Applications of these technologies such as deep learning and algorithms to predict diseases and pest outbreaks, genome editing for new improved varieties are already in the market. To study the functional nature of Extension and Advisory Services (EAS), a system level analysis was carried out with 36 service providers from Maharashtra and Odisha; including Public Private, Farmers’ Producers Organizations (FPOs), and Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs). All public EAS providers reported linkages and cooperation with other public EAS providers as well as non-public EAS providers. The linkages among non-public EAS providers were not as expected; particularly, FPOs and some private EAS providers worked in isolation. The Government of India is committed to doubling of farmers’ income (DFI) by 2022 with DFI strategies now under implementation. ICAR-NIAP estimated the interim growth rates in income for effective monitoring of DFI strategies. The income assessment was done using seven sources of growth. The real income growth was estimated from 2015-16 to 2018- 19. The estimates are a positive direction of change. Several initiatives of the government are seen to be yielding positive results, and the growth momentum can be expected to pick up further. A value chain analysis of three major spices-ginger, turmeric and chilli in the north- eastern region was analyzed to work out comparative costs and returns mapping of value chain actors and estimation of compliance cost, investment and margins along the value chains.