 MAFSU, Nagpur; MSKUA&T, Banda; TNAU, Coimbatore; SKUAST, Jammu; NAU, Navsari; SDAU, Dantiwada; UAS, Dharwad; Faculty of Agriculture, BHU, Varanasi; School of Agriculture, SHUATS, Allahabad; and Faculty of Fisheries, KUFOS, Cochin. Revision of UG Course Curriculum The status of implementation of Fifth Deans’ Committee recommendations was reviewed by conducting review meetings with the respective Deans from all the Agricultural Universities. First review meeting was held during 25– 26 May 2017 for the disciplines of Agriculture, Horticulture, Forestry and Sericulture; second meeting during 2-3 June 2017 for Agricultural Engineering, Biotechnology, Food Technology and Dairy Technology; and third meeting during 29-30 June 2017 for the disciplines of Home Science and Fisheries. Several aspects related to credit load, distribution of courses among different semesters, conduct of various components under Student READY were deliberated and the necessary clarifications were provided to the Deans for smooth implementation of the Fifth Deans’ Committee recommendations. Student READY Programme Experiential Learning is a major component of the Student ‘READY’ programme as per the Fifth Deans’ Committee recommendations. Skill oriented training to the undergraduate students is being imparted to promote entrepreneurship, knowledge as well as marketing skills through practical end–to-end approach Ranking of Agricultural Universities Agricultural Universities Ranking was made to improve ranking of Indian universities in World University Rankings. The emphasis on research product, research impact, research excellence, technologies transferred to farmers, spread/adoption of technologies and increase in agricultural growth in the area of jurisdiction of the university, etc. were considered while evaluating the agricultural universities. Based on the evaluation, 57 agricultural universities have been ranked and the following top three universities (ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal; ICAR- Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi; Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana) were honoured on ICAR Foundation Day Award Ceremony held on 16 July 2017. Honey processing unit at NAU, Navsari Food Industry Centre at PAU, Ludhiana DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 87 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 88 in product development. Till date, 426 modules have been developed/supported by the Council including 10 new modules established during the year. New modules were supported in Makhana production, processing for value addition, protected cultivation of high value horticultural crops, commercial floriculture, quality seed production, bee keeping and honey production, etc.