 vannamei in 2009 and its successful adoption in the subsequent years was made possible through concerted efforts towards environmental impact assessment studies, development of quarantine measures, biosecurity at the farm/hatchery level, adoption of better management practices (BMPs), sustainable intensification protocols, etc. The introduction of improved culture methods paved way for research on the productivity and efficiency of culture systems. Recent breakthroughs in captive breeding, seed production, and grow-out technologies of marine and brackishwater fishes such as cobia, pompano, seabass, grouper, milkfish, grey mullet, pearl spot, etc. are expected to accelerate the growth of diversified brackishwater farming and mariculture in the coming years. Efforts are also directed towards the standardization of fattening protocols for crabs and the culture of mussels, oysters, seaweeds, etc. In recent years, several frontier areas of research have garnered considerable attention from the scientific community, including genetic engineering, cell line development, genomics, stem-cell culture, cryopreservation of fish gametes, vaccines, biofertilization, bioprospecting, etc. (Ayyappan et al. 2015). Additionally, emphasis is placed on post-harvest value addition to develop methods for preserving the quality of fish and fish products. Numerous industrial products were developed from low-valued fishes or other fishery byproducts. Significant effort was also devoted to the advancement of packing technology and the enhancement of processing machinery. As with biological and frontier science research, socio-economic and extension research has played a vital role in recent years in changing the fisheries sector. Some of the thrust areas in this realm include socio-economic evaluation of capture and culture systems and their efficiency studies, impact assessment of technologies, market and trade research, value chain studies, gender research, fisheries policy and legislation, information and communication, etc. Achievements in Fisheries and Aquaculture in Independent India 173 2.1. Achievements in capture fisheries 2.1.1. Marine fisheries India’s marine fisheries was of subsistence nature during the early 1950s producing about 0.5 Mt annually which, however, achieved remarkable development during the last six decades. The establishment of the Marine Fisheries Research Station (presently ICAR- Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute or ICAR-CMFRI) on 3rd February 1947 at Madras University, Tamil Nadu, which later shifted to Mandapam Camp, Tamil Nadu in 1949, was a significant step forward by the Government of India. The current annual production of about 3.8 Mt - a 7.5 times increase in the last seven decades is a testimony of the development made by the sector. Supported by a coastline of 8118 kilometers, an exclusive economic zone (EEZ) of 2.02 million km2 and a continental shelf area of 0.