 INFRASTRUCTURE RESEARCH The importance of soil and climate in agriculture has been recognized as early as 1905 when the provinces were divided into a suitable number of ‘Circles’ and each housed an experimental farm representing a definite soil and climate. In the early forties, it had been realized that agricultural development could be achieved only if two objectives were kept in mind: abolition of poverty of the cultivator and the abolition of poverty of the soil. The concern for water management gained acceptance also the same time. An AlHndia Coordinated Research Project for Investigations in Soil Science was launched in 1965-66. In 1968, there was a Project Directorate on Dryland Agriculture. The AlHndia Coordinated Research Project only highlighted the compulsion of undertaking problem-oriented applied research and testing the technology/knowledge in different agroclimates. Atthe ICAR, therefore in 1965, a Deputy Director-General was appointed for Soils, Agronomy, Irrigation and Agricultural Engineering. Agricultural Engineering, however, grew into an independent division in 1976. The Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Karnal, Haryana, has been the first institute to come up in the discipline in 1969. To follow in quick succession have been: the Central Soil and Water Conservation Research and Training Institute, Dehra Dun(1974), andthe National Bureau of Soil Survey and Land-Use Planning, Nagpur (1976). At present, the programmes in production agriculture and resource management are carried out at 8 central research institutes, 2 project directorates, 3 national research centres and 15 all-lndia coordinated research projects with a wide network of cooperating centres located at the ICAR institutes and state agricultural universities spread over different agro-ecological regions of the country. Our major research programmes in the discipline are: Resource Inventory Water Management Cropping Systems Research Soil Management Nutrient Management Agroforestry RESOURCE INVENTORY The extent and distribution of different soils for planning rational land-use, availability of water to match the crop needs and precise information on weather parameters to determine the growing season are important for preparing land- use plans and for developing location-specific agricultural technologies. OBJECTIVES @ Refining agro-ecological zones based on climate, landscape and soil related criteria Inventory of soil resources at national, state and agri-ecozone level Preparation of thematic maps for land evaluation and land-use planning Soil degradation assessment Developing long-term climatic database Database on surface and groundwater resources ACHIEVEMENTS A map of the country delineating 20 agro-ecological regions (AER) and 60 sub- regions based on physiography, soil and period of crop growth has been prepared in 1992. The soil resource maps of different states in 1:250,000 scale and country map in 1:5 m scale have been recently completed.