 • We are moving towards biofortified crop varieties for quicker solution to improve health and address nutrition issues of women and children. Over 5 m ha area in India is under biofortified varieties of different crops. • India recognizes and appreciates the renewed efforts made by G20 and other nations and organizations for the digitalization of agriculture. India has one of the largest digital connect in the form of over 1.2 billion mobile connections and 1.20 billion + Unique ID-AADHAR holders. We have provided 120 million soil health cards to farmers. • Our strength is pan-India presence of ICAR institutes and KVKs with domain expertise for crops, horticulture, livestock, fisheries, soil and water expertise/farm machineries, and farmers outreach. This unique strength is being utilized to provide ICT interface with plants, animals, man and machine. • Recently, India has embarked upon Prakritik Kheti i.e. chemical free natural farming, which offer greater opportunity to push and pull the local seed systems and utilization of agro-biodiversity for the benefit of the masses. Excerpts of inaugural address by General (Dr.) V K Singh (Retd.), Hon’ble Minister are given as: • Dr Himanshu Pathak, Secretary DARE & DG, ICAR and Chair MACS 2023, distinguished delegates from different G20 Member States, Invited Guests, Ladies and Gentleman. Greetings to you all. Namaskar! • It is my pleasure to be with you in the ancient and holy city of Varanasi for this very important meeting of top scientists of the developed and developing countries and international organizations, MACS. This is an attractive opportunity to take stock of our progress on critical issues of food security and nutrition, climate change adaptation solutions, digital agriculture, public-private investment in agriculture. G20 as a group, shares about 85% of the GDP of the world and hence has greater responsibility towards the wellbeing of global humanity. • During India’s Presidency, the theme ‘One Earth, One Family, One Future’ signifies our collective efforts for achieving SDGs. The theme of MACS’ Sustainable Agriculture and food System for healthy people and plant resonates the emphasis put forth in the theme. • As two-thirds of the world population lives in G20 nations and 60% of all agricultural land and 80% of world trade in agricultural products is accounted by these countries, our onus on food security and nutrition, livelihood support to the people is crucial. We must utilize our collective strengths for responsible and responsive R&D in agriculture and promoting cooperation for faster transition towards sustainable agriculture and food systems. • In India, as the food supply improved, we moved towards the goals of sustainability, efficiency, equity, affordable and healthy safe food as also farmer’s income and competitiveness in food value chain. Our efforts to deal with global food price shock of 2007–2011 and during COVID -19 pandemic offers useful lessons.