 In case of trials under rainfed/restrictive environments, all those showing significant genotypic differences and reasonable yield level of the checks should be considered. Trials with extremely low/negligible CV should be considered cautiously. Overall performance of checks: Trials, where performance of the checks is low and unrepresentative of the general trial performance, may be considered cautiously. (iii) Data from all the trials qualifying on the above criterion may be pooled, analyzed for stability etc. and included in the result books. (iv) The data on ancillary characters may be compiled/ summarized appropriately and presented in the result books. Means and ranges may be given. (v) Data generated in additional trials/nurseries by other disciplines may be appropriately analyzed and presented in the result books. (vi) Data once included in the data-books after scrutiny on the above basis would not be changed unilaterally by the PD/PC without discussion in workshop/group meeting. 11. Norms for promotion of entries for testing in the second year The promotion of entries from IVT to AVT would be strictly based on the overall performance/merit of the test entries. The following criteria would be followed. (a) Variety should qualify to minimum norms for reaction to pests and diseases, where required (to be formulated by scientists of concerned discipline and approved by the workshop). These norms should be reviewed from time to time by the workshop/group meeting as per the prevailing disease/ insect-pest scenario. (b) Outstanding performance for yield/main produce of the economic importance (by a margin of 15 to 20%) over the best performing check without compromising on other important features. OR Significant superiority or 10% higher yield/main produce of economic importance over the best performing check and stable performance across locations in combination with specific favourable attributes such as high degree of resistance/tolerance to diseases, insect-pests and other biotic/ abiotic stresses relevant to the region along with the acceptable produce quality characters. OR Yield/main produce of economic importance at a par with the best performing check but significantly 6 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS superior in some features of specific importance such as disease/insect-pest resistance/or some specific quality traits. OR Yield marginally lower than the best performing check but outstanding in one or more strategic features relevant to the crop such as extra earliness, specific industrial product property, export quality, nutritional superiority etc., which will result in higher cash returns per unit area to the cultivator. b. Advanced Varietal Trial (AVT-I) 1.