 He could understand that the success of the Swadeshi movement was possible as women spun yarn and weave cloth in large numbers. He felt that women should not feel any legal disability, which is not suffered by men. Women should learn the rights as well as duties. She thereby has the right to participate in every activities of man and has an equal right to freedom and liberty with him. Therefore both boys, as well as girls, should be educated but it is only the primary education for the two sexes that have much in common. According him there must be certain provision for separate 152 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR arrangements for the education of girls after their attaining a particular age. Domestic tasks should be taught to them for practical application in daily life. Gandhiji was seriously worried about those widespread social issues during the period. He was against of the child marriage, purdah system, dowry system etc., which crippled women’s movement in the society and restricted their advancement and capacity for doing work useful towards the society. He was against of the celebration or feasting on different occasions like marriage, birth anniversaries etc. He took steps towards to remove all social and religious barriers to start widow remarriage. He realized that social institution and education play an important role in empowering women and bringing gender equality and equity in the society. Mahatma Gandhi is encouraged women’s active participation in the freedom struggle, which gave him identity of a great promoter of women’s liberation. Women’s participation in national politics through non-violent methods brought unbelievable changes in the past. They crossed the boundaries of their protected homes and joined in non-violence movement without any hesitation. These moments witnessed to observe the women empowerment, which started from home to country level. 3. Concept of Gender Empowerment The term empowerment has a meaning to enable gender especially women to obtain and acquire power and resources to participate in decision making to achieve their family goals. This can be achieved by giving equal rights and ownerships in assets and also giving equal opportunities for accessing the resources. Women’s participation in decision-making process and access to and control over resources are considered as the significant indicators in the development of gender empowerment. Women especially from rural background possess have lack of knowledge about their rights on the proportions of material resources and which show them as powerless and dependent on the powerful. Empowerment of women can be achieved by education and participation in different level of social institution play an important role. This should be accepted starting from the family members to the policy makers. 4.