 There is a need to establish mechanisms to connect researchers and institutions working on identified grain crops to enhance the dissemination of research findings and identify research gaps, and needs. This will also include supporting open access publication of research results. Apart from this, establishing web platforms to connect researchers, exchange data, share communication products and thematic briefs to encourage research and information sharing in an open and accessible manner. It was decided to organize knowledge transfer, on voluntary and mutually agreed terms, capacity-building activities and international research workshops and conferences. These activities would endeavour to encourage researchers to work on these grains. In order to support and promote the research interests, the scientists should be recognized through research and innovation prizes and/or awards. It is a matter of pride for us that the MAHARISHI secretariat will be based in the ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research (IIMR), Hyderabad with technical support from International Crops Research Institute for semi-arid tropics (ICRISAT), One CGIAR, International organizations (IOs) and research institutions. SUMMARY The common issues in agriculture research and development including food security and nutrition, climate smart agriculture, digital agriculture, public private partnership etc. were discussed during this meet. In these areas, options were explored of G20 countries coming together to help sharing science-based technological and innovative solutions. This event provided new opportunities of collaboration in research, education and extension in the field of agriculture and strengthens the G20 forum for international economic cooperation. The proposal from India on “Millets and Other Ancient Grains International Research Initiative (MAHARISHI)’ was deliberated and accepted unanimously as G20 initiative which aims at advancing research collaborations and generating awareness about millets and other ancient grains on agro- biodiversity, food security and nutrition aligning with the International Year of Millets 2023 and after. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: director.dkma@icar.gov.in ICAR stall on coarse cereals and millets Indian Farming 13 June 2023 Agro-ecological approach to combat climate change impact B S Dwivedi and N G Patil* Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan 1, Pusa Campus, New Delhi 110 012 The Observer Research Foundation report (2023) states that, “India, an emerging economy, ranks first among all G20 members in terms of overall climate performance, owing to its significantly low per capita contributions to carbon and GHG emissions; very limited share in legacy emissions relative to its population needs; least rate of per capita energy use; and significant efforts towards, not only preserving, but also expanding its climate-regulating land cover by 6% compared its 1992 levels.