 IGF1 as additive, improved post- thaw sperm functional parameters and reduced oxidative stress of spermatozoa and can be used as sperm motility enhancer for developing a species-specific semen extender for buffaloes. Cloning: During this period, 43 cloned blastocysts were transferred to synchronized female buffaloes for conservation and multiplication of superior buffalo germplasm. Two pregnancies were obtained, which continued only for five months and aborted thereafter. Epigenetic studies for understanding pregnancy losses are under progress. Milk metabolomics of indigenous cows Milk metabolite profile from Bos indicus cattle raised in intensive system of management was compared with that of indigenous cattle maintained under extensive system. In the milk of indigenous cattle maintained in extensive system: • Significantly higher concentration of zinc, iron, phosphorous and copper is present but calcium, magnesium and potassium were not found affected by the management conditions • Total amino acid content was highest • Significantly higher essential amino acids compared to all the three categories in the intensive system of management • Lowest level of saturated fatty acid • Significantly lower concentrations of atherogenic (C12, 14 and 16) fatty acids • Unsaturated fatty acids highest mainly due to higher levels of mono unsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs), higher milk polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) level (7.18%) and total 3 and 6 fatty acids • Lower atherogenic index (33.90) • ß carotene concentration was more than two-fold. Hence, grazing cattle have favourable milk composition characteristics and can be assigned special value, which can become important tool to maintain native genetic resources characterized by low production levels.  LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 65 frequently reported parasitic diseases from the country. PCR samples, viz. blood (32), nasal swabs (16) and tissue (30: heart, liver, spleen, bone marrow) from large and small ruminants, collected from Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka during outbreak investigation, revealed that 8 samples were positive for Pasteurella multocida. N-terminal gene of P. multocida encoding for NanB-Nt protein (~94 kDa) was expressed and characterized by SDS-PAGE. Two whole genome sequence of P. multocida strain and Mannheimia haemolytica isolated from yak were carried out and reported from India. Screening of 157 yak nasal samples for respiratory pathogens revealed detection of M. haemolytica (17.9%), P. multocida (3.9%) and Histophilus somnil (2.5%). Study on epidemiology of HS in livestock vis-à-vis foot and mouth disease (FMD) revealed the high cumulative outbreaks of HS than FMD in Gujarat, and followed by more FMD than HS in West Bengal, respectively. The risk factor analysis showed that Kolar, Tumkur, Hassan, Mysuru, Chamarajanagara, Raichur, Belagavi, Gadag, Koppal, parts of Mandya in Karnataka were at high risk for anthrax.