 SUMMARY DBW 316 (Karan Prema) is a new nutritional value bread wheat cultivar developed by ICAR- Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley Research, Karnal, Haryana and has been released for North-Eastern Plains Zone (NEPZ) of India. NEPZ comprises Eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Orissa, West Bengal, Assam and Plains of North- Eastern States. This variety is found to be tolerant to terminal heat stress, has shown a better performance under very late sown conditions in the agronomical trials conducted in NEPZ. This new variety registered a high yield potential of 68 q/ha and average yield 41 q/ha under late sown conditions of Eastern Gangetic Plains. DBW 316 is having desirable plant architecture with a robust medium plant stature and medium maturity duration. The grains are hard, oblong having amber colour with 1000-grain weight of about 40 g. The grain protein content of this variety is highest (13.2%) among the varieties released for this zone. The variety has high zinc content as well as sedimentation value. High bread and chapatti quality score along with increased nutritional value makes this variety desirable for consumption as biofortified wheat. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: hanif.khan@icar.gov.in Indian Farming 21 September 2023 Moringa: A bioactive elixir for nutrition, ecology and prosperity Shivam Kumar Rai*, Abhishek Kumar Pal, Juhi Pandey and Abhinav Dayal Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences, Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh 211 007 Moringa oleifera, generally known as the Moringa crop, is a versatile and nutritious plant that is in high demand. Due to its high nutritional value, it is now found in dietary supplements, functional foods and health beverages. Moringa can adapt to various climates, making it ideal for sustainable agriculture and contributing to climate resilience. It is also used in innovative culinary creations and natural skincare products. The increasing demand for Moringa has economic benefits, especially for smallholder farmers and rural economies. However, maintaining quality and sustainable practices is essential. Ongoing research on Moringa's medicinal properties and bioactive compounds has opened up new possibilities for its use. Ultimately, Moringa has the potential to address nutritional needs, promote sustainable practices, and shape a healthier future. Keywords: Bioactive compounds, Economic benefits, Moringa oleifera, Nutritious plant, Sustainable agriculture Indian Farming 73 (09): 21-24; September 2023 T he illustrious botanical marvel, Moringa oleifera, renowned by its colloquial name Moringa, stands as an exemplar of nature’s bountiful ingenuity and nutritional prowess. This exceptional plant, embraced for its multifaceted versatility and robust nutritional profile, has garnered global acclaim, gracing the realms of dietary supplements, functional foods, and health beverages.