 These programmes are being offered in collaboration with the University of Hyderabad (UoH). In these programmes, a total of 44 students took admission in 2022. in Education Management. Total 35 video modules of content have been developed for MOOC on Digital Teaching Techniques, MOOC on Digital Assessment and Evaluation Methodologies includes E-commerce, Bioinformatics and AI in Agriculture with interactivity. Academy has offered two MOOC programmes, benefitting about 3,870 learners across the country. Start-ups and Agripreneurship: Association for Innovation Development of Entrepreneurship in Agriculture (a-IDEA) is one of the ICAR Agribusiness Incubator and Technology Business Incubator started in 2014 and still working on promoting startups and entrepreneur. The a-IDEA has organized various events for strengthening the start-up ecosystem and the ICAR- ABIC incubated six start-ups with the funding support from ICAR. The NABARD also provided incubation support for 29 start-ups besides acceleration of 14 start-ups. The Aggnite 3.0 was organized to provide entrepreneurial spirit among the students and it provided financial support to three students. The flagship program of a-IDEA, i.e. AgriUdaan 5.0 was implemented by accelerating 14 start-ups and the start-ups raised the funds through pitching during the demo day on 28th April 2023 in presence of about 30 investors. New initiatives, viz. Immersion program of start-ups and FPOs was organized at five locations where more than 300 FPOs and 25 start-ups participated to enhance the networking among each other. Two sensitization programs on Entrepreneurship Development for students of SAUs were organized covering 1,028 students. The a-IDEA also supported 11 start-ups with the funding support of ₹50 lakhs each under BIRAC BIG and 10 start-ups with the funding support of ₹10 lakhs each under NIDHI PRAYAS. Sixteen startups were provided seed fund from the project of NABARD, DST and DBT. Memorandum of Understandings (MoU): In an effort to strengthen the Public-Private Partnership, ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with five private universities, viz. School of Agriculture Sciences, MRU, Hyderabad on 27 April, 2023; Bharatiya Engineering Science and Technology Innovation University (BESTIU), Gorantla, Andhra Pradesh on 17 July 2023; IES University, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh on 31 July 2023; Sanskriti University, Mathura, Uttar Pradesh on 21 August 2023; and Vellore Institute of Technology, Vellore on 26 September 2023 to facilitate staff and student trainings and providing guidance in research work. These MoUs have been very important in the process of implementation of National Education Policy 2020. Memorandum of Association (MoA): The a-IDEA, ICAR-NAARM signed MoA with 63 ICAR Institutes and 10 other organizations like SAUs, Industries, Banks, etc. for providing support like co-incubation, co-events, technical mentoring and monitoring.