 Toxicity of ammonia in fishponds increases with increase in temperature and pH, which can be reduced by keeping the ponds well aerated and adding a dose of gypsum/alum as per expert advice. It is also very important to sustain regular plankton (natural fish food) production in the pond and provide a nutritionally balanced supplementary diet. Keep the pond rich in plankton through mixed utilization of organic manures and inorganic fertilizers. Farmers are advised to use fully decomposed organic manures (FYM, biogas slurry, vermicompost or poultry manure) as per recommended rates and feed the fish daily with good quality feed having 25% crude protein @ 1.5-2.0 % of the fish body weight after sunrise (between 9-11 a.m.), preferably by bag feeding. Suspend feeding in case fish come to the surface for gasping atmospheric air or disease is observed in the fish. Increased input in terms of seed, feed and fertilizer should be avoided. It not only enhances input costs, but also deteriorates the water quality elevating the risk of stock loss. Follow recommended prophylactic measures (liming, potassium permanganate application). ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 229 In case of disease occurrence, consult an expert from KVKs, ICAR- CIARI, Port Blair or Dept, of Fisheries. Always wear mask, use sanitizer or wash hands using soaps and maintain social distancing in the farms and marketplaces. Horticulture Brinjal Select the high yield round fruited varieties as per local market demand. Integrated Pest management practices should have followed for control of fruit and shoot borer. Bacterial wilt resistance brinjal like CARI brinjal-1, & 2 and other local private company varieties Tomato Lime applications @ 100kg/acre before transplanting of seedlings Grow only wilt resistance varieties like Arka Rashak Laxmi, Utkal Raja, Utkal Urbasi etc. Avoid the rainy days for transplanting of seedlings. Select the sandy soils for better crop growth and yield. Cole crops (Cabbage Cauliflowers) Grow only tropical high temperature tolerant varieties like white marvel, white short etc. Avoid the excess rainy period for transplanting of seedlings. Seedlings should treat with bio fertilizers and bio-inoculants. Soil application of biofertlizers before transplanting Apply micronutrients like boron, zinc, calcium and molybdenum. Don’t apply excess chemical fertilizers like DAP and Urea. Drain excess water from field and grown in raised bed during uncertain rain in winter. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 230 French beans Always grow pole types of French beans. Yellow vein mosaic and aphids should control timely to minimize the crop loss. Root crops (Radish, sweet potato, Carrot) Always choose sandy loam loose soil for root crops Pusachetaki, Japanese long of Radish variety should planned for cultivation. Improved Bio fortified varieties of sweet potato like Bhu-sona and Bhu-sakti and CARI SP-1 and CARI SP-2 should select.