in ŠŠ An important carp species of high consumer preference, with moderate growth rate, is farmed along with Indian major carps in polyculture system at a very low proportion of about 5%. ŠŠ The fish matures in two years in pond condition. Breeding season generally extends from May to July. Brooders are raised in the ponds along with other major carps. ŠŠ For induced breeding, selected brooders are kept in spawning tank of the hatchery in the ratio of 1:2 female to male. Breeding is carried out by single injection of hormonal formulations such as Ovaprim/Ovatide/Gonopro FH at 0.4-0.5 ml/kg and 0.2-0.3 ml/kg body weight to females and males, respectively. ŠŠ Spawning occurs within 6-8 h. Fecundity ranges 1.5-2.0 lakh eggs/kg female weight. Eggs are transparent, demersal and having diameter of 3.0-3.5 mm. ŠŠ The hydrated eggs are shifted to hatching tanks, where they are kept in floating condition with mild water circulation. Hatching occurs within 15-18 h. The hatchlings are kept for another two days in a similar condition with water circulation. ŠŠ The yolk-sacs of these hatchlings which provide required nutrition during these three days of incubation are absorbed within 72 h and spawn becomes ready for feeding, during which they are transferred to the nursery. ŠŠ Spawn is reared to average fry size of about 20 mm in 15-20 days rearing at stocking densities of 5 million/ha and10 million/ha with survival rates of 30 and 50%, respectively, in earthen nursery ponds and concrete tanks. ŠŠ It is the state fish of Haryana and the seed production is practiced in several states. 4 Kuria Rohu Labeo gonius (Hamilton, 1822) ŠŠ Kuria rohu, a minor carp, is a highly preferred fish in the north-eastern states of India. The species forms a small component in carp polyculture system in certain parts of eastern and north-eastern states. ŠŠ Matures in two years, and breeds during May-August in flowing rivers. The brooders are reared along with Indian major carps in earthen ponds. ŠŠ Sexes are easily distinguishable on attaining maturity, with females having bulged abdomen and smooth pectoral fins, whereas males are slender, having rough pectoral fins and oozes milt on pressing the belly. ŠŠ The fish is induced bred either with pituitary extract or hormonal formulations such as Ovaprim, Ovatide, Gonopro FH etc. Single injection of any of these commercial hormones @ 0.4 ml/kg and 0.2 ml/kg body weight to the female and male fish, respectively, is found to be highly successful. ŠŠ The selected brooders at the ratio of 1:1 female and male, after injection, are transferred to the spawning tank where spawning occurs within 10-11 h. In general, 1.0-1.5 lakh eggs/kg female, are produced. ŠŠ The swelled eggs are transferred to the hatching tanks, where they hatch within 18-20 h. The spawn stage is attained in 50-55 h with 70-80% survival.