 These remarkable grains are not only packed with nutrition but also leave a minimal ecological footprint, demonstrate resilience in adverse conditions, and exhibit great versatility in culinary applications. Encouraging the resurgence and widespread consumption of millets holds the potential to make substantial contributions to sustainable agriculture, enhance food security, and promote healthier dietary choices for individuals and communities alike. Furthermore, millets exemplify climate resilience in agriculture. Their adaptability to adverse environmental conditions, efficient use of water, and contribution to biodiversity make them a valuable asset in the fight against climate change. As the world seeks sustainable agricultural solutions to cope with an increasingly unpredictable climate, millets stand as a promising crop for resilient and sustainable food systems. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: rukoochawla21@gmail.com Field view of Foxtail millet Panicle of Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) Field view of proso millet (Panicum miliaceum L.) Indian Farming 37 October 2023 Swarna Sukha Dhan: A high yielding, multiple stress tolerant rice variety with desirable grain quality traits Santosh Kumar1*, Rakesh Kumar1 and Sanjeev Kumar1 1ICAR Research Complex for Eastern Region, Patna, Bihar 800 014 Under the climate change scenario, frequent occurrence of drought has been identified as key to low productivity of rice in rainfed as well as water limiting irrigated areas in eastern India. A high yielding, multiple stress (drought, disease, and insect pest) tolerant rice variety, Swarna Sukha Dhan (IET 24692) has been released and notified for commercial cultivation under direct seeded condition in drought prone rainfed midland to upland ecology of Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. This rice variety is of short duration (110-115 days), high yielding (4.0-4.5 t/ha), multiple stresses tolerant with desirable grain and cooking quality traits. Quality wise, this variety possesses high hulling recovery (78.4%), milling (70.9%), head rice recovery (68.4%) with desirable intermediate amylose content (22.32%), alkali spreading value, desirable GC with very occasionally chalkiness indicating good cooking quality. Grains of this variety contain 23.1 ppm zinc and 11.8 ppm iron. Swarna Sukha Dhan shows moderate resistance to leaf blast, brown spot, bacterial leaf blight, brown spot, false smut, and rice tungro diseases and stem borer, leaf folder, brown plant hopper and whorl maggot insect pest. Adoption of this variety increases net income of farmers by `15000-20000/ha over the local cultivars. This variety has potential to increase rice productivity in drought prone rainfed as well as limiting irrigated areas and thus it will contribute to achieve the goal of doubling the income of farmers besides ensuring the food self sufficiency at regional as well as national level. Keywords: Drought, Multiple stress, Rice, Swarna Sukha Dhan R ICE (Oryza sativa L.