 As agricultural productivity was very low, she was forced to purchase most of the household needs like cereals, pulses and vegetables from the local market. She was growing very few vegetables of local variety in their backyard in a traditional way. Household dietary diversity was very low as cereals and roots and tubers were the main food groups consumed by them in their daily diet. She came in contact with scientists of ICAR-VPKAS, Almora in 2018 and was trained in vegetable cultivation practices, mushroom cultivation, vermicomposting, honey bee rearing and vegetable seedling production under protected condition. Although she was educated only up to 8th standard, she was very eager to learn about nutrition, the importance of growing fruits-vegetables and other improved agricultural technologies to enhance nutritional status. Under the NMHS project “Strategies to improve health and nutritional status of hill farm women through technological interventions”, nutri-gardens were designed for 100 m² to 200 m² of land in the backyard. Layout and crop allotment in nutri-gardens were modified depending on climatic and seasonal changes. More than 16 types of vegetables along with fruit plants rich in various micro- nutrients were grown in nutri-gardens. She took a keen interest in the demonstration of model nutri-garden in her back yard with a land area of 200 m² which is enough for meeting the daily micro-nutrient requirement of her family. She has worked almost single-handedly on her land to achieve the right mix of farming and other allied activities. to generate vermicompost from farm waste. She is now able to sell a good quantity of individual fresh vegetables in the local market. According to her, she is harvesting 12–15 kg of particular vegetables in 2– 3 days interval regularly in every season. By providing a fresh supply of vegetables, she easily got some fixed shops in the local market to dispose of her vegetables. Moreover, some families of nearby areas are also giving her advance demand for fresh vegetables. She can now sell vegetables to customers directly from her nutri-garden. RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 155 Poly-cement tank technology is boon for water harvesting and ensuring livelihood security The Himalayan region faces acute water shortage during lean period (October to June) not only for agriculture but also for domestic and other uses despite the fact that region received sufficient rainfall and source of origin of several perennial rivers. Water springs are main source of water for domestic use and also to some extent used for irrigation but springs are getting dried due to unplanned construction activities, deforestation and extension to cultivation in unsafe slopes. The irrigation facilities are meagre (10% irrigated land in hills) and costly. However, hill climatic conditions are more suitable for growing off season vegetables.