 The virtual Nodal Officers meeting was conducted on 11 January 2021. All the nodal officers were apprised of the recent steps and new initiatives taken by ICAR.The library is an important source of knowledge and librarian meet was held on 16 September 2021; meeting of Experiential Learning coordinators was organized on 6 and 9 August 2021, to streamline the important component of the scheme. For smooth conduct of scheme activities and utilization of funds efficiently for the purpose they are released, Comptrollers meet was organized on 22 September 2021. The Education Division ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 119 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT identified various IT solutions and shared with the Universities to avail the available online options for the maximum possible components under the scheme. The 75th year of independence of our nation is widely being celebrated as the Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav. To commemorate the monumental occasion, ICAR is organizing various events and campaigns in thematic areas of Indian Agriculture. Joining in this celebration, Agricultural Education Division is organizing “Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsava” lecture series, 35 lectures have been completed during this period. ICAR-National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) NAHEP is designed to strengthen the national agricultural education system in India with overall objective to provide more relevant and high-quality education to agricultural university students. This programme is striving to promote efficiency and competitiveness through changes in working mechanism of agricultural universities, raising the teaching and research standards through improved research and teaching infrastructure and enhanced faculty competency and commitments, and making agricultural education more attractive to talented students. There are four key components under NAHEP, namely, Institutional Development Plan (IDP), Centres for Advanced Agricultural Sciences and Technology (CAAST), ICAR to support excellence in agricultural universities (AUs), and ICAR Innovation Grants to AUs. It is envisaged that improved AU performance through quality enhancement, better employment and entrepreneurship opportunities created for agriculture graduates, non-accredited AUs attaining ICAR accreditation, and institutional reforms implemented in education division of ICAR and AUs under these components together shall contribute to the achievement of the overall program objective. NAHEP is implemented by ICAR (GoI) and World Bank with the total project cost of USD 165 Million (INR 1100 Cr approximately at 1USD=INR 64.47 as on 1 June 2017), having 50:50 cost sharing between GoI and World Bank. The beneficiaries of NAHEP include 74 institutions that form the ICAR-AU System, which encompasses 64 State-level AUs, 4 Deemed Universities, 4 Central Universities with Agricultural Faculty and 3 Central Agricultural Universities.