 Name and address of the discloser Shri Varun Lai, C/o Lok Jagriti Kendra, 52 Bigha, Madhupur, Deoghar (Jharkhand). Location of use of the ITK: Barmasa, Jarmundi, Dumka (Jharkhand). Experimenters Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) Dr. D. Swarup, Principal Scientist and Head, Division of Medicine, I.V.R.I., Izatnagar; and Dr. T.J. Rasool, Principal Scientist, Dr. R.K. Singh, Head, Division of Virology, Dr. V. Bhanuprakash, Scientist and Dr. Ram Naresh, Scientist, I.V.R.I., Mukteswar, dist Nainital. West Bengal University of Animal Sciences and Fishery Sciences (WBUAFS), Kolkata Dr. N.R. Pradhan, Professor and Head and Dr. C. Lodh, Lecturer, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Veterinary and Animal Science, Kolkata 700 037 (West Bengal). Results and discussion The application of the ITK comprising Bantulsi leaf paste resulted in the recovery of foot lesions within 14 to 15 days. However, conventional veterinary treatment resulted in recovery from foot and mouth lesions within 6 to 7 days. Wound exudation, pain and lameness decreased in both the treated groups after 4 days of treatment. However, in the ITK treatment group, the healing of wound lesions remained incomplete and the gait of animals showed slight lameness till the period of observation. The results indicated that ITK was moderately effective in the management of foot lesions in FMD. Farmers were advised to repeat the treatment in a similar manner twice or thrice daily and to restrict the grazing of animals and entry into the muddy places. The animals were examined for the healing of the lesion after 7 days. The information to decide the recovery rate was collected from farmers. Conclusion The ITK consisting of the use of bantulsi was moderately effective in the management of foot lesions in FMD affected animals. The extract of bantulsi also did not reveal antiviral activity against blue-tongue and goat-pox viruses. 28 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture 7.7 Use of Stone Apple (Bael) to check diarrhoea in animals Description of ITK: Stone Apple (Bael) might have anti-diarrhoea ingredient. Its juice is mixed with water and drenched to the animals suffering from diarrhoea, 2-3-times a day. Treatment per animal costs Rs. 15 to 20. The animal is cured in 2-3 days. This practice is in use in many villages of Budaun, Shahjahanpur and Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Name and address of the discloser Ms. Husan Afjal, Primary School Teacher, C/o late Ilyas Fatima, mohalla Vedon Tola, Bund gali, Baduan (Uttar Pradesh). Location of use of ITK with full address and geo indicators Animal owners of many villages in Budaun, Shahjahanpur and Bareilly. Experimenters Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) Dr. D Swarup, Head, Dr. N.N. Pandey, Principal Scientist and Dr. D.B. Mondal, Senior Scientist, Division of Medicine, IVRI, Izatnagar 243 122 (U.P.). Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology (GBPUAT) Dr. Mahesh Kumar, Professor, and Head, Department of EPM and Dr. J. L.