 To assess the EPA and DHA levels of important food fishes, the CIFRI carried out fatty acid profile study of important food fishes of India. In this context among the fish species studied Tenualosa ilisha, Sardinella longiceps, Nemipterus japonicus and Anabas testudineus are the fish species which are very rich sources in DHA and EPA and can be considered of immense utility in public health nutrition. product named CadalminTM Antihypercholesterolemic extract (CadalminTM ACe) using bioactive ingredients from selected seaweeds. The product is effective in combating dyslipidemia and obesity. CadalminTM ACe is a unique blend of 100% natural marine bioactive ingredients from selected seaweeds developed with an eco-friendly ‘green technology’. The product is devoid of any side effects, as established by detailed pre-clinical trials. The technology has been commercialized. ❑ 11. Agricultural Human Resource Development The identified thrust areas continued to receive financial, technical and monitoring support from Agricultural Education Division, ICAR. The Agricultural Education Division is mandated for maintaining, upgrading quality and relevance of higher agricultural education through partnership with State Agricultural Universities (63 SAUs), Deemed-to-be-Universities (4 DUs) and Central Universities (4 CUs) with Agricultural faculties and Central Agricultural Universities (3 CAUs) under the National Agricultural Research and Education System (NARS) to address the challenges of agricultural growth and upgrading quality of higher agricultural education. The Division, through the implementation of Scheme-Strengthening and Development of Higher Agricultural Education in India, assists the AUs to plan, undertake, aid, promote and coordinate agricultural education in the country with the total outlay of ` 448.00 crores. It has helped in building excellence in specific strategic areas in education, research and capacity building through Niche Area of Excellence, Centres for Advanced Faculty Trainings, Summer/Winter Schools and Short Courses, promoting holistic higher education through Experiential Learning Modules, assuring quality and relevance of higher agricultural education through accreditation, periodic revision of courses, emphasis on student amenities, scholarships, and competency enhancement through extramural research projects, National Fellow and National Professor schemes and capacity building of farmers through Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Unnat Krishi Shiksha Yojna (PDDUUKSY). GOVERNANCE AND QUALITY ASSURANCE Accreditation of Agricultural Universities As of now 60 AUs have been accredited. During the reported period, the National Agricultural Education Accreditation Board (NAEAB) accredited 10 agricultural universities, viz.