 Gahlod, Assistant Professor and Dr. S.V. Upadhye, Assistant Professor, Department of Surgery and Radiology, Nagpur Veterinary College Nagpur (Maharashtra) 440 006. Results and discussion Application of ITK ointment revealed that, there was significant reduction in the swelling as well as pain in shoulder in all the animals. Further it was found that, there was reduction in mean scores of swelling of joints and limbs. The pain decreased after the application of ITK on the affected part. The treated animals also revealed gradual improvement in weight- bearing scores. Iodine ointment is a proven mild counterirritant and strong antiseptic, having ability to dilate the superficial blood vessels with enhancing phagocytosis, which literally helps dilute and drain the inflammatory fluid through lymphatic and thereby reduce the inflammation of the part. It was also found that there was regular linear decline trend of swelling over leg and joints. The overall observation revealed the decreasing trend of swelling on day 30 as compared to day zero which suggested that the application of ITK and iodine ointment on swelling was found to be effective due to its anti-inflammatory action. Further, it was found that, weight bearing depends upon extent of inflammation of the joint, flexor tendon, ligament, nerve, weight of the animals and the type of work extracted. If such animals are used for heavy work, they show signs of lameness. However, low-grade inflammation of the part could be treated successfully with ITK ointment. If ligaments or tendons are affected, more time is required for healing. Therefore weight bearing is delayed. Subsided swelling after application of ointment Conclusion The ITK preparation consisting of geru 30 g, snail shell powder 50 g boiled in castor oil. Alua 20 g and kudru or sahajan gum 50 g and proprietary preparation—iodine ointment was found effective in the treatment of swelling of neck or shoulder and limb or joint in bullocks and bulls. There was decrease in swelling and pain scores of joint sand limb at different time intervals after commencement of treatment using ITK. Of the 16 animals, 8 recovered completely where as in capped elbow the findings at both the centers validated the efficacy of ITK in treatment of swelling of shoulder and joints in animals. 38 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture 7.16 Treatment of Haemorrhagic septicaemia by kalajeera Description of the ITK This method, practiced in many villages of Badaun and Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh, is very effective to cure the disease, at the initial stage. Paste of kala jeera is applied on the throat of HS-affected animal. Name and address of the discloser Dr. (Ms) Shagufta Jamal, Department of Adult and Continuing Education and Extension, Jamia Millia Islamia, Jamia Nagar, New Delhi 110 025 Location of use of the ITK Badaun district is located in western Uttar Pradesh.