 • Centre for training in salinity researches in the country. Activities • Studies on characteristics andgenesis of salt affected soils. • Amelioration / management of salinity prone as well as salt affected soils. • To collect, assess and develop plant genetic resources tolerant to stresses arising due to excess of salts, sodicity and water stagnation. 3. Salient achievements • In-Vitro Bio-Immunization Technology :Inducing fusarium wilt tolerance in Banana plants through incorporation of lipo-polypeptides as biomolecules. • Salt tolerant rice variety CSR 76 released by Uttar Pradesh SVRC during the year 2021 for sodic soils.It can tolerate the sodicityupto pH~9.6 having grain yield of of4.0-4.5 t/ha. • CSR GROW-SURE :A bio-enhancer CSR-GROSURE is effective in the management of crop growth in sodic soils up to pH 9.0. It comprise of highly efficient salt tolerant bacteria strains CSR-M-16 (Bacillus licheniformis), CSR-A-11 (Lysnibacillusfusiformis), and CSR-A-16 (Lysnibacillussphaericus). Salt tolerant rice variety CSR-GROSURE- a bio-enhancer, in vegetable crops under inland sodic conditions 112 ICAR Institutes Profile 112 ICAR-Indian Institute of Soil and Water Conservation 1. Contact details i) Postal Address: ICAR-Indian Institute of Soil and Water Conservation (IISWC), 218, Kaulagarh Road, Dehradun – 248 195, Uttarakhand, India ii) Director: Dr M.Madhu, iii) E-mail: directorsoilcons@gmail.com Ph: +91 135 2758564 & 2752452, Website: www.cswcrtiweb.org 2. Mandate and activities • Research for management of land degradation in a primary production systems and rehabilitation of degraded lands in different agro-ecological regions of the country. • Co-ordinate research network for developing location-specific technologies in the area of soil and water conservation. • Centre for training in research methodologies and updated technology in soil and water conservation and watershed management. 3. Salient achievements • Development of models watersheds across the agroecologies. • Developed technologies for land degradation neutrality. • Developed Bio-engineering technology for treatment of torrents in Shivaliks. • Technologies for rehabilitation of mine spoil areas in hilly regions • JholaKundi: a low cost water harvesting technique for augmenting production of jhola lands in Eastern Ghats High Land Region of Odisha • Recharge filter – a cost effective technology for augmenting groundwater Vertical Drain In Tea Plantation, R.C., Udhagamandalam Minespoil Rehabilitation Project, Sahastradhara, Dehradun 113 Natural Resource Management 113 ICAR-Directorate of Weed Research, Jabalpur 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-Directorate of Weed Research, Maharajpur, Adhartal, Jabalpur-482004 (M.P.) ii. Name of the Director: Dr. J.S. Mishra iii. Email: director.weed@icar.gov.in/ Tel: 0761-2353138 2. Mandate and activities • Conduct research for developing viable weed management technologies in crop and non- crop situations.