in 54 Giant Tiger Shrimp Penaeus monodon (Fabricius, 1798) ŠŠ Giant Tiger shrimp is the largest penaeid shrimp in the world and widely distributed in the Indo-Pacific region. ŠŠ It is a closed thelycum species, with distinguishable sexes as petasma in males and thelycum in female. Size at first maturity in the wild caught broodstock is about 35 mm (30 g) in male and 46 mm (60 g) in female. However, larger size of brooder (>100 g females and >80 g males) are procured for hatchery production of seed. ŠŠ Brooders can also be raised in captivity in maturation tank maintained with a density of 4 nos/ m2 with male: female ratio of 1:2 and fed with live feed like polychaetes, squid or maturation feed. Induced maturation is performed by unilateral eye stalk ablation (ESA). ŠŠ Ready to spawn females are transferred to the spawning tank. Just after spawning the females are removed and eggs are incubated for hatching after rinsing several times with clean seawater. ŠŠ Eggs hatch in 12-17 h to nauplii (hatching rate >80 %) which are stocked in larval rearing tank @ 0.5-1.0 lakh/tonne of clean disinfected water. ŠŠ Nauplii (6 stages) are non-feeding larvae which metamorphose to protozoea stages (3 stages) and further to Mysis (3 stages). The protozoea and mysis stages require 3-5 days each to complete their development, which further metamorphose to post-larvae and protozoea and mysis stages are fed with live algae viz., Chaetoceros and Skeletonema, the post-larvae are fed with Artemia nauplii along with live algae or microparticulate diet. ŠŠ The survival levels till harvest remains at 30-40%. The post-larvae are reared in the hatchery for another 15-20 days before stocking in ponds. ŠŠ The seed production technology is widely adopted in most of the coastal states. Compiled by: Dr C.P. Balasubramanian, Dr A. Panigrahi and Dr K.K. Vijayan More information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture, Chennai E-mail: director@ciba.res.in 55 Indian White Shrimp Penaeus indicus ŠŠ Indian white shrimp is widely distributed in the Indo-Pacific region. ŠŠ The species attains first maturity at size of about 148 mm and 35 g in female, and 128 mm and 25 g in male. Hatchery operation is undertaken by collecting either gravid female from the wild or inducing maturity through unilateral eye-stalk ablation (ESA) and rearing in captivity up to gravid condition. ŠŠ The brooders are screened for all important diseases like WSSV, IHHNV, MBV and EHP before shifting to the hatchery. After 3-4 days of acclimatization, the females are subjected to ESA for maturation. The broodstocks are reared in FRP/concrete tanks of 5 tonnes capacity at a density of 6/m2, with a male: female ratio of 1:2. ŠŠ Total tank volume of 80-100 tonnes is required to produce one million post-larvae. Ablated brooders are reared in maturation tanks (>5 tonnes) and fed with live feed like polychaete worms, squids or molluscan meat and pellet feed. ŠŠ Fecundity of 1.0-3.