 tabaci is a complex of 11 well-defined high-level groups containing at least 24 morphologically indistinguishable species. Whiteflies cause severe damage to crop plants indirectly by transmitting the viruses of the genus Begomovirus. Both nymphs and adults suck plant sap from the underside of the leaf during which virus acquisition and transmission takes place. Whiteflies are Yellow water trap Myzus persicae November–December 2019 41 known to transmit Tomato leaf curl New Delhi virus- potato (ToLCNDV-potato) in potato since its first report during the year 2000, and at present it is an emerging disease posing threat to healthy seed potato as well as ware potato production in India. The symptoms of the diseases in potato are curling and bunching of apical leaves along with mosaic and chlorosis, hence, referred as potato apical leaf curl disease. The yield losses to the extent of 50% in early planted and susceptible cultivars have been reported. Biology: The female lays around 150-300 eggs singly on the underside of the leaf which hatch in 4-7 days. The first instar nymph known as crawler, is the only mobile stage that moves to look for feeding sites. The other instars are sessile and they complete their lifecycle on the same leaf. The nymphs become adults in 10-14 days. The healthy adult lives for 10-20 days. The total life cycle is completed in 20-30 days under favourable weather conditions. However, whiteflies can complete three generations on potato crop. They also reproduce parthenogenetically. The whitefly appears on the young crop in the month of October and continues to build up to reach peak during November and starts decline during December in Modipuram, Uttar Pradesh, India. The whitefly population is relatively low on main crop as compared to early crop. The heavy rainfall is detrimental to whiteflies. They cause huge economic loss in potato in Gwalior region (Madhya Pradesh) by transmitting the virus. Management: Varieties like Kufri Bahar have shown high tolerance and can be planted in whitefly prone areas. Elimination of weed and alternative host plants of the virus and its vector helps to reduce virus transmission to potato plants. Trap crop of cucumber is a favoured host plant for whiteflies but a non-host for virus, and whiteflies are known to lose their viruliferous capacity after feeding for few days on this plant. Placing yellow sticky traps (15 × 30 cm2) just above the canopy height @ 60 traps per hectare at equidistance from each other and seed treatment with imidacloprid at 0.04% for 10 min and its foliar application at 0.03% at emergence with repeated application after 15 days is standard recommendation in seed potato. Sprays with thiamethoxam 25WG @ 0.05% after 15 days of crop emergence, foliar sprays of spiromesifen 240SC at emergence @ 96g a.i./ha (400 ml/ha) would also check whitefly population build up.