 Ajmer (Rajasthan) take 1 kg leaf of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and soak it in 5 litres water overnight. After filtering, this decoction is sprayed in 0.166 ha (1 /6th ha) (1 bigha). It is sprayed twice, first on 40 days old crop and second time on 55-60 days old crop. About 40% farmers are following this practice since 10-15 years. This ITK is effective at initial stage of disease. Keywords: tobacco, cumin seed, blight Shri Lingaraj Pradhan of Sundargarh district in Orissa has developed a Shri V. Meyyanadhan, S/o Shri Veeramuthu, Maramadakki, Aranthangi, Pudukottai (Tamil Nadu) 614 622 Shri Roopchand Khar/ Shri Lala Ram Khar, village Nadi-II, Peesangam, dist. Ajmer (Rajastan) Shri Kishanlal and Shri Kna Ram Raigar, village Kesarpura, Peesangam, dist. Ajmer (Rajasthan) Shri Lingaraj Pradhan, Jakeikal, Bowaigarh, Content HORTICULTURAL CROPS Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator method of cultivating potato in paddy hay packets. These hay packets contain soil and cowdung inside and seeds are sown at the periphery, between hay ropes. Roots of potato seed go inside the soil, and leaves come out. Inside the packet potato grows. He applied water of domestic use to it. This method needs no land and no extra irrigation. He now proposes to keep these packets on iron racks, one above the other. He also plans to put wheels to the racks, so that these can be transported to the sun from the corridor. Ropes of 3 to 4 cm diameter are prepared from paddy hays. These ropes are woven to make round packets, called pura, puruga or alia. These are generally prepared to preserve seeds in village areas. Seeds are generally kept in the centre of the hay-made packets and are closed by ropes. For potato cultivation, compost and soil are kept inside the hay packet and closed by ropes. Between two adjacent ropes of hay, pre-prepared potato buds are placed. Domestic water (after washing hands and utensils) is used on the hay packets. Potato leaves come out from the junction of two ropes and the roots go into the soil inside the packet. After the usual time, potatoes of 10-15 kg are harvested by breaking these packets. Its benefits are as follows: (1) land is required; landless can do it on commercial basis; (2) no extra water is required while washing hand and face, the water can be poured into the packet; (3) no need of de-weeding, as no weed grows and thus full utilization of fertilizers is possible; (4) one can use pesticides in controlled way; and (5) 10-15 kg potato can be obtained Sundargarh (Orissa) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation. Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2994 Potato cultivation in shifting method 2995 Thrips white-spot control in 2996 Control of thrips in onion (Allium cepa) from one packet.