 Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2564 Curing animals for ailment of blood oozing in urine This practice is quite effective in curing the animals suffering from Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta  the problem of blood oozing in urine and is common in all districts of Jammu region. In this ITK, about one kg milk is boiled and 100 g chirpine resin is mixed with it. This mixture is given to the animal during morning hours when animal has empty stomach. The prescription is more effective at the start of the disease. Keywords: blood oozing in urine, milk, chirpine resin Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2624 Use of bhang (Cannabis sp.) to cure shivering problem in cattle Sometimes cattle start shivering; especially the milching cattle. Main symptoms are feeding stoppage, salivation persistence and lethargic. Waste material of bhang (Cannabis sp.), approximately 1 kg is boiled with 1 kg water and then sieved material is given to the infected animal with bamboo feeder (pipe) twice a day for 5-6 days. This is followed in Theong tehsil of Shimla district of Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial Keywords: bhang (Cannabis sp.), shivering problem, feeding stoppage, salivation Shri Deep Ram Verma Jagheri, Theog, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 201 2573 Utilization of neem (Azadirachta indica) leaves with mustard oil to cure cold and fever When an animal (cattle, cow and buffalo) suffers from cold and fever, farmers use a solution made from neem leaves and mustard oil. Neem leaves have ability to cure from fever and cold. About 60-70 % problem can be controlled by this practice. About 100 g green leaves of neem are collected and a paste is made. The paste is mixed with 150 ml mustard oil and boiled for 5 minutes. The lukewarm paste is then smeared on the backbone of the suffering animal. To get complete relief, the practice is followed thrice a day up to 3-4 days continuously. This practice is an age-old one, which is followed in Sonapur village of Azamgarh district of Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: cold, fever, neem leaves, mustard oil Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 2590 Use of extract of bakaine (Melia azadirach) with lobnan and mustard oil to treat cold and severe fever in animals When an animal (cattle, cow and buffalo) suffers from cold and severe fever, farmers use lukewarm mixture made from leaves of bakaine with lobnan, to Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta,  which 100 ml mustard oil is mixed with 1 litre water and boiled till the mixture remains about 500 ml.