 The total number of modules supported across agricultural universities is now 492. Students of AUs in KVKs and farmers fields for RAWE component under student READY HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 130 Human Resource Development Research and capacity building Niche Area of Excellence: The ongoing NAE programmes are being supported in areas, viz. assessment of heavy metals in crop plants, development of nanomaterial for tissue regeneration in animals, and development of blast resistance high yielding short grain aromatic rice variety for northern Bengal. Significant achievements: In the ongoing program at ICAR-IVRI the protocols for isolation, culture and characterization of stem cells from different species of animals were standardized. Also, the centre standardized protocol for development of 3-D scaffold of silk-alginate for neural regeneration. It was also observed that mesenchymal stem cells possess therapeutic and tissue regenerative potential in treating chronic mastitis. In UBKVV, Coochbehar, development of non- basmati aromatic rice in Kalonunia background resistant to blast disease is under progress. F7 and F8 generations of Kalonunia × Pusa Basmati 1,637 were screened for the presence of Pi9 genes and plants with Pi9 genes were tagged in field. GC-MS volatile aroma compounds profiling of parents (PB 1637, Kalonunia) was done. Aroma compounds like 2 Acetyl-1-pyyroline (2- AP), hexanal, heptanal, octanol, pentanal, etc. were detected. Some compounds, viz. pentanal, cyclopropane, propyl- and 2-Decenal were present in Kalonunia but absent in PB-1637, This information is important for metabolite fingerprinting. In the ongoing programme at ICAR-IARI, the level of pollutants, viz. Ni, Pb, Cd, Cr, in basmati rice grains from 12 districts of Uttar Pradesh, 5 districts of Haryana and 3 districts of Punjab (Jalandhar, Patiala and Amritsar) were within the permissible limits. The NAE centres organized 3 training programmes / awareness workshops/camps leading to capacity building of 54 faculty and 167 other stakeholders. Twenty students underwent internships. Four PG students completed degree programme and eighteen students are continuing research work and pursuing degree utilizing the facilities developed under NAE programmes. These centres published 6 papers in peer reviewed journals, including papers in journals assigned NAAS rating of 7 and above. Three technologies/methodologies have been developed and are under process for commercialization.