 Large thorny, decidous shrub or a tree, up to 9 m in height, common along the Indian and the Andaman coasts. It also occurs in the plains of Assam and in Khasi hills. 220 Prosopsis cineraria - H-Khar B-Shami M-Shemri G-Sami Tel-Jammi T-Jambu Kan-Banni M-Tombu O-Shami Bark as well as galls formed on the leaves are used for the tanning. Small to moderate -sized tree, evergreen or nearly so with light foliage found in the dry and arid hot region of India. 221 Psidium guajava Common guava H-Amrud B-Piyara M-Jamba G-Peru Tel-Goyya T-Koyya Kan-Sebe Mal-Pera Used in the preperation of guava cheese, canned guava and guava jelly. Leaves contain wax, resins, sugar, carotene, Vitamin-B1,B 2 and B 6. The leaves are used for wound ulcer and astringent for bowel. The young leaves are used as tonic in the diseases of the digestive function . The decoction of leaves is used in cholera. The bark is valued for astringent properties and employed in diarrhoea in children. The flowers are said to cool the body and are used in bronchitis. The fruit is tonic, cooling and laxative and also useful in diarrhoea and dysentery. Arborescent shrub or small tree upto 8 m high, flower white and fragrant . It is a native of tropical America. It grows nearly through out the country upto 1500 m and is cultivated commercially in almost all the states. The important growing states are Uttar Pradesh,Bihar, Maharashtra, Assam , West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 372 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 222 Punica granatum Pomegranate H-Anar B-Dalim M-Dalimba G-Dadam Tel-Danimma T-Madulai Kan-Dalimbo M-Matalam Fresh juice is used as an ingredient of cooling and refrigerant mixture and of some medicine for dyspepsia. The rind is valued as an astringent in case of diarrhoea and dysentery . The expressed juice of the leaves and the young fruit, and the decoction of bark are used in dysentery . The powdered flower buds are used in branchitis. The seeds are considered to be stomachic and pulp cardiac and stomachic. Shrub or small tree, 5–10 m high considered to be a native of Iran, Afganistan and Baluchistan found growing wild in the warm valley and outer hills of the Himalayas between 900 and 1800 m and cultivated through out India. 223 Randia dumetorum Common emetic nut H-Mainphal B-Mainphal M-Ghela G-Mindphal Tel-Manga T-Madkarai Kan-Kare Mal-Kara O-Patova Pulp of the fruit dried and powdered is valuable emetic and used as a substitute for ipecacuanha. In smaller doses, it is nauseant, expectorant and diaphoretic. It is considered to have anthelmintic and abortifacient properties. The fruit is said to be useful as a nervine calmative and antispasmodic.