 Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title or the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3596 Chapati preparation from mango stone 3597 Preparation of jonna burva in Gujarat prepare food from locally available weed tuber, called motha (Cyperus rotundus), under the harsh and drought conditions. After the collection of motha tuber, these are washed with alum water, its outer brown layer is removed and the tubers are boiled. Boiled tubers are cut into small pieces, dried in sunlight for 10- 15 days and then powdered at local flour-mill. This powder is used to prepare chapati. The same tubers may be used for preparing curry after boiling. Many local vegetables are mixed with this curry for making it tastier. Keywords: motha, brown layer, flourmill, chapati Mango seeds or stones are dipped in water for whole night. The next day stones are taken out and these are dried in the shade of a tree. The outer cover of the stone is broken and inner part is dried again and ground into powder form. Before grinding, the mango seeds are kept in bamboo basket, which is placed in running river so that bitter taste of seeds is removed. The powder is mixed with small millet flour or with pulse flour for making chapati. About 95% tribal people use it. Keywords: mango stone, chapati, bitter Jonna burva is a local food prepared from sorghum in southern Telangana region. One kg cleaned sorghum is soaked overnight and it is added to 3 litres of boiling water while stirring it slowly. Salt is added to taste. This preparation is also called pulagam. This is eaten with a side dish called pacchi pulusu, made of diluted tamarind extract. About 100 g and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry,Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Content ETHNIC FOOD Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3598 Preparation of jonna rotte 3599 Preparation of jonna appadalu 3600 Preparation of sajja rotte sorghum contains 10.4 g protein, 0.025 g calcium and 4.1 g iron. Keywords: jonna burva, sorghum, pacchi pulusu, pulagam, protein, calcium, iron Jonna rotte is the chapati made of sorghum flour, which is very nutritious. Soft dough is kneaded by mixing 500 g sorghum flour with sufficient water and then handful of dough is taken and it is pressed with hand on a smooth plate by sprinkling some flour into a chapati. Then it is put on hot pan and cooked both the sides. Keywords: jonna burva, sorghum, dough Jonna appadalu is made in Telangana region with sorghum. About 2.