 Subsistence farming (farmers grow enough for themselves without a marketable surplus) otherwise known as low external input based farming and commercial farming (farmers produce certain crops for the market, but keep their own food system intact by growing their own inputs) are highly relevant to concepts of organic farming. In the subsistence and commercial model of farming, the payout for purchasing of inputs are either nil or minimal. Integrated Organic Farming Systems (IOFS) promoted under All India Network Programme on Organic farming involving crops for household consumption, cash crops for income and livestock relies mostly on the on-farm Organic and Low Input Agriculture: Gandhian Way 88 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR inputs rather than market inputs such as seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, etc. Gandhiji’s principles do not support marketized farming (buy every input from the seeds to water, tractor, fertilizers- all of which are cash-based). Organic farming principles and practices also discourages the use of market inputs for several reasons such as cost, quality, timely availability, etc. Gandhian principle advocates for ‘natural insurance’ by way of farmers choosing their crop without market-based inputs influence. Mixed cropping mechanism encouraged under organic farming provides the natural insurance to the farmers against nature’s vagaries. Non-violent, ethical and truthful in all economic spheres were encouraged by Gandhi for achieving the aim of development. Trusteeship, devolution of economic actions, labor-skill intensive technology and importance to weaker sections were advocated. Another principle of Gandhian way of farming proposed, agriculture will prosper when farming communities are able to feed themselves and their neighbours and are able to supply decent surplus to urban areas, and villagers don’t feel the need to leave villages and go to cities. “Farming is not man’s business, it is his moral duty” the other quote of Gandhiji implies, it is the honor of each and every person to appreciate and steward Life, whether in spirit or in practice. Gandhiji once said, “to the hungry, God is bread”. These quotes further support the organic farming and low input based sustainable agriculture in way that even if organic farming results in low yield in the initial years of conversion, other benefits like ecological and social besides health needs to be counted instead of looking in to only the way of production enhancement. 3. Advantages of Organic Farming and Low Input Agriculture Organic agriculture aims to rural development as it improves the value of all forms of life including rural communities, by satisfying and sustaining their socio-economic and traditional aspirations besides firming their social association, while protecting natural resources.