 • Spore enzyme based sensor on paper strip was optimised for solvent volume 0.5 ml required for extraction of pesticide from food matrix at NDRI, Karnal. • Pulsed field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) protocol for strain differentiation of C. perfringens was optimized at SKUAST-K. • TANUVAS, Chennai, developed LAMP assay for IBV and IBDV and Recombinant TK antigen based LAT for DPV. • Janthinobacterium, a specific spoilage organism (SSO), was isolated and reported for the first time from Indian squid and kit for detection of formalin in fish was developed at TNFU, Toothukudi. • An outer membrane protein vaccine for E. tarda was developed by the centre at WABUFAS, Kolkata. • An interactive e-learning website with different course categories ranging from residential courses, distance education courses, MOOC and other vocational courses established at NAARM, Hyderabad. • Extruded reconstituted rice with cooking time of approximately 4 min. and improved protein content ~15% was developed at IARI centre. • The rotary unit of 13 hp Power Tiller was modified for Biasi rice cultivation by the centre at IGKV, Raipur. Mechanized Biasi machine was found suitable under rainfed rice cultivation because of their higher field capacity, better quality of work and more benefit cost ratio. • A web based Agriculture Expert System (AES) was designed and developed for advising farmers for managing threat of yellow rust disease in wheat by the centre at GBPUAT, Pantnagar. In addition to diseases, the advises on other farm operations are being issued considering the weather forecast. • Ideal approach of rainwater management as per the recommendations of the centre at PDKVV, Akola is presently adopted on more than 55,000 ha area through the network of 10,500 farm ponds by about 35,000 farmers in Vidarbha region. • The most suitable module for soil conservation and for checking ravine development was agri- horti followed by silvi-pastoral as suggested by the centre at RSKVV, Gwalior. • Seventy-eight percent of apple trees experience 80-40% pollination deficit. Six promising pollinators were identified, by the centre at SKUAST-K. These are Lassioglossum marginatum, Apis cerana, Apis mellifera, Xylocopa spp., Andrena spp., Syrphids. Formalin detection kit for fish Modified Power Tiller for Biasi operations in rainfed rice A B (A) Apis cerana; (B) Lassioglossum marginatum; (C) Xylocopa spp C • The centre on taxonomy of insects and mites recorded new species of spider mites (Acari: Tetranychidae) from India with new records and redescription of species • Introgression for high grain weight was done at PAU, Ludhiana and increased grain width and grain length of recurrent parent PBW621 and BC2F1 derived from cross PBW114/Ae. tauschii3747//PBW621 • Resistance to stripe rust and Karnal bunt identified in triticale x bread wheat derivatives and their transfer into high yielding bread wheat lines is underway at PAU, Ludhiana.