 For obtaining higher yield of Makhana under field conditions, 20 t/ha FYM and NPK @100:60:40 kg/ha as a basal application in the pond between February and March was found most effective. Full dose of phosphorus, potassium and FYM and half dose of nitrogen, along with 30 kg of lime should be applied at the time of final land preparation about 5 days before transplanting while remaining half nitrogen is applied in 2-3 equal parts, starting at 20-25 days of transplanting. Insect-pest management The most prevalent insect is mollusca, aphid (Rhopalosiphum nymphaeae L.), caseworms (Elophila depunctalis W. & E. crisonalis W.) and rib borer (Chironomous spp.) that causes 17.04% to 23.67% loss in seed yield. To control this insect-pest, root deep treatment for 30 min with Imidacloprid and Thiamethoxam @ 5 g/l before sowing followed by spraying of 5% neem oil 40 days after planting and repeat at 25 days of interval effectively manages the crop. Weed management The aquatic weeds need to be kept under controlled condition especially during early stages of plant growth after transplanting, as these compete with the main crop for nutrients, water, light and space growth of makhana leaves. Depending on weed infestation intensity, at least 2-3 hand weeding are necessary at 15-20 days interval starting from early stage (25-30 days after transplanting) to till the water surface covered by large spherical makhana leaves. Once, water surface completely covered by large spherical makhana leaves, the growth of weeds is suppressed. Euryale ferox has been reported for various pharmacological activities comprising antidiabetic, anti-melanogenic, antihyperlipidemic etc. Harvesting and yield In pond system, harvesting required experienced farmer for picking matured makhana kernels from bottom of the pond which is very labour intensive. This is done with the help of a horn shaped bamboo pole, locally known as the 'Kaara'. Later on, the mud is sieved through a locally made bamboo screen or sieve known as the 'Ganiya'. The yield of makhana seed range from 22 to 30 quintals per hectare depending upon the variety. In field system, makhana harvesting is less labour intensive and less risky with higher seed yield collection in comparison to pond system. Seed processing The seeds (gudi) cannot be consumed directly and need to undergo manual processing to become 'pop' or popped makhana. The processing involves several steps, including cleaning, grading, sun drying, preheating, roasting, popping, and polishing. The value of makhana significantly increases after this processing steps that Makhana flower Makhana leaves Whole makhana fruit (left); Cross section of makhana fruit showing seeds (right) Whole makhana fruit (left); Cross section of makhana fruit showing seeds (right) Crop cultivation e Pond system: It is very old method of cultivation maintaining water depth of 1.5-2 m.