 Spraying: Drones have emerged as a compelling alternative to manual mechanical spraying, effectively addressing long-standing challenges associated with traditional spraying methods. Adopting agro drones for pesticide spraying, farmers can overcome issues like excessive chemical application, uneven distribution, airborne pesticide dispersion, and the significant reliance on manual labor, thus revolu­ tionizing agricultural practices [4,25]. A Quadcopter mounted with sprayer helped minimize the resources required and to ensure controlled spraying over the chosen farm [26]. Subsequently, numerous advance­ ments in the algorithms used to spray fertilizer using UAVs came into existence. A significant breakthrough in the field of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) was achieved with the successful development of autonomous route-changing capabilities, empowering these aircraft to Fig. 1. Conventional type of drones used in agriculture (a) Fixed wing drone (b) Monocopter/helicopter (c) multi-rotor drones. 1 An integral part of the National Agricultural Research System (NARS). H. Puppala et al. Technology in Society 74 (2023) 102335 3 adapt swiftly and seamlessly in dynamic working environments. This milestone is considered as a substantial advancement that greatly enhanced spraying efficiency, revolutionizing agricultural practices [27]. Synchronized operation of multiple UAVs to collaboratively work and expedite the fertilizer spraying process is achieved with the help of Genetic Algorithm powered drones. These GA drones significantly hel­ ped to reduce the overall time required to spray the fertiliser over the entire farm [28]. A comprehensive farm monitoring, encompassing water level detection, weed identification, and disease diagnosis was performed using a Hexacopter and remarkable outcomes in terms of potential savings of up to 20–90% fertiliser, human resources, and water con­ sumption are observed [29]. These findings highlight the benefits of using UAVs to optimize and conserve resources in farming operations. In a recent advancement, UAVs with a variable spraying system controlled by Artificial Neural Network (ANN) was developed to achieve precise and controlled spraying, ensuring optimal droplet deposition in accor­ dance with specific requirements and desired outcomes [30]. In addition to the drones that are capable of either spraying or monitoring crop health, a multi-functional quadcopter capable of monitoring and pesti­ cide spraying, was also developed and successfully deployed. This drone assisted in implementing precision agriculture with ease [31]. Owing to the limitation of flight time due to high payloads, attempts are being made to develop an octocopter drone with lower weight spraying sys­ tems [32]. By reducing the overall weight of the payload, significant enhancements in the endurance time of these drones can be achieved, unlocking new possibilities for extended and efficient aerial operations.