 There is no need of seed sowing in old pond but in new pond, seeds are sown by broadcasting method @ 80 kg/ha during December-January. This system gives low yield and it is very tedious and cumbersome to harvest kernel from the bottom of the pond. It takes one year to complete the crop cycle. e Field/farming system: It is a modern method of makhana farming requiring less time and water maintaining 30-60 cm water depth. Intercropping is possible with fodder in same year. It requires nursery for raising 2-3 months seedlings having 4-5 leaves, light green in colour which are suitable for transplanting in main field at the spacing of 1.25 m x 1.25 m during 4" week of March- 1*t week of April. Crop diversification can be made by growing different water crops like water chestnut, fish, particularly catfishes, sweet flag along with makhana cultivation. Integrated nutrient management Cultivating Makhana in the region requires slightly higher doses of micronutrients (copper and zinc) as Zn plays a crucial role in flowering, fruit growth and seed formation. The application of NPK and FYM, in combination, enhances the yield of Makhana. Makhana exhibits a favourable response to FYM application as compared to NPK fertilizers, hence right quantity (dose) of farmyard manure (FYM) is considered crucial as it also provides traces of micro-nutrients elements. For obtaining higher yield of Makhana under field conditions, 20 t/ha FYM and NPK @100:60:40 kg/ha as a basal application in the pond between February and March was found most effective. Full dose of phosphorus, potassium and FYM and half dose of nitrogen, along with 30 kg of lime should be applied at the time of final land preparation about 5 days before transplanting while remaining half nitrogen is applied in 2-3 equal parts, starting at 20-25 days of transplanting. Insect-pest management The most prevalent insect is mollusca, aphid (Rhopalosiphum nymphaeae L.), caseworms (Elophila depunctalis W. & E. crisonalis W.) and rib borer (Chironomous spp.) that causes 17.04% to 23.67% loss in seed yield. To control this insect-pest, root deep treatment for 30 min with Imidacloprid and Thiamethoxam @ 5 g/l before sowing followed by spraying of 5% neem oil 40 days after planting and repeat at 25 days of interval effectively manages the crop. Weed management The aquatic weeds need to be kept under controlled condition especially during early stages of plant growth after transplanting, as these compete with the main crop for nutrients, water, light and space growth of makhana leaves. Depending on weed infestation intensity, at least 2-3 hand weeding are necessary at 15-20 days interval starting from early stage (25-30 days after transplanting) to till the water surface covered by large spherical makhana leaves. Once, water surface completely covered by large spherical makhana leaves, the growth of weeds is suppressed.