 HIMANSHU PATHAK we pedis a \ MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FARMERS WELFARE Ufaa (Sax) Va AalfreeH (syeesMy) Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi 110 001 Secretary (DARE) & Director General (ICAR) Message I am genuinely pleased to learn about the Technical report on "Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming" which has been prepared after rigorous and collaborative efforts of Telecommunication Engineering Centre (TEC), Department of Telecommunication, Government of India and Indian Council of Agricultural Research CAR), Department of Agriculture Research and Education, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India. This monumental work represents a concerted effort among experts in this field, offering a comprehensive exploration of profound changes occurring in agriculture due to digital innovation. In this report, we find a wealth of insights into the latest advancements in precision farming, data analytics, and technological integration, reshaping the agricultural landscape. This cover, from adoption of IoT devices to the implementation of AI algorithms. This report not only highlights the remarkable progress made in this field, but also addresses the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead. It serves as a roadmap for stakeholders across the agricultural sector, guiding decision-makers for harnessing the power of technology to drive sustainability, efficiency, and resilience in food production. I whole heartedly extend my appreciation to the team from TEC and ICAR who have lent their expertise and dedication in bringing out with this report. I also congratulate them for organizing I[TU/FAO Workshop on "Cultivating Tomorrow Advancing digital agriculture through IoT and AI" scheduled during March 18-19, 2024 at NASC Complex, ICAR New Delhi. As we celebrate this outcome, let us remain steadfast in our dedication to innovation and progress. Let us continue to pioneer solutions that empower farmers, strengthen communities, and safeguard our food systems. My best wishes for successfully organizing this event. 11th March, 2024 <g , New Delhi (Himanshu Pathak) International Telecommunication Union • Place des Nations, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland Tel: +41 22 730 5852 • E-mail: tsbmail@itu.int • Fax: +41 22 730 5785 • https://www.itu.int/en/ITU-T Telecommunication Standardization Bureau Geneva, 12 March 2024 Tel: +41 22 730 5856 Fax: +41 22 730 5853 E-mail: tsbdir@itu.int Our planet is expected to host 9.7 billion people by 2050. Sustaining so many lives will demand significant technological progress. Advances in artificial intelligence (AI) and the Internet of Things (IoT) will form a key part of this progress. ITU is committed to ensuring that the associated benefits are felt by everyone around the world. We share this commitment with the UN Food and Agricultural Organization. Together we support a focus group on AI and IoT for digital agriculture working towards new ITU standards.