 In the present project proposal, innovative ways have been articulated to address key concerns that fall within the domains of ICAR regulatory power given as per Cabinet decision of 1973. The agricultural education continues to be a State subject and therefore, major effort will also be required by the States. In order to get cooperation and involvement of States, innovations have been built in design for attracting investments at the State level. The key initiatives include ASPIRE programme for attracting young talent to agricultural education, major reforms in governance for bringing efficiency in the system, embedding new system for attracting and retaining talented faculty, continued emphasis on capacity building through quality improvement programmes nationally and internationally, developing public- private partnership for curriculum delivery and educational research, partnership with foreign universities for sandwich programme, development of joint projects with the scheme of post-doctoral fellowships and, inviting international faculty for capacity building, performance linked support, development of priority setting and monitoring and evaluation cells in the institutions and acceptance to implementing reforms for enhancing efficiency in governance as a precondition for partnership. Another thrust area of the project is the development of Centers of Excellence in competitive mode to bring quality improvements across different regions and promote new ways to technology development. Non-formal education with the objective of reaching the unreached for tapping the agricultural potential in disadvantaged regions is another new initiative. Model extension outreach through ICT will trigger technology 32 dissemination revolution and bridge the technology gap for enhancing productivity in most neglected regions. The models developed under the project will ultimately lead to horizontal spread of technologies by State governments. With the implementation of the project, the new breed of students will have analytical and professional skills, knowledge in new emerging areas, entrepreneurship skills and confidence to start an enterprise and, capable of addressing new and emerging challenges of agriculture in the globalized scenario. In addition, the major initiatives contemplated for enhancement of quality of post- graduate research, will also ultimately help in developing much needed technologies for meeting the challenges of climate change, rational input use, and enhancing productivity and profitability through use of new technologies such as biotechnology, nanotechnology, precision agriculture, etc. Since the major objective of the project is to have quality education including skills and entrepreneurship development through various incentives and approaches, talented students will be attracted to agricultural education.