 Research evidences are uncourageous towards the integrated use of organic + inorganic + bio- fertilizers which improve the soil productivity and onion yield. Bio-fertilizers can be applied for their positive effect on the soil fertility status and nutrient uptake. Bio- fertilizers like Azotobacter 5 kg/ha, Phosphorus solubilizing bacteria (PSB) 5 kg/ha and Trichoderma 1.25-1.5 kg/ha can be applied with vermicompost or well decomposed farm yard manure. Bio-fertilizers in liquid form can be preferred for easy application through drip irrigation after one week of recommended dose of fertilizers application. The biological inputs should not be used with chemical fertilizers or any agrochemicals. When nutrient content of soil (kg/ha) is medium, NPK at 100:50:50 kg/ha is recommended. First dose of NPK 50:50:50 kg/ha is to be given at the time of transplanting whereas remaining N (50 kg/ha) to be given in 2 equal splits at 30 and 45 days after transplanting, respectively. Sulphur (45 kg/ha) is recommended before transplanting. Sixty days after transplanting, no any nitrogen containing fertilizers should be applied. Apart from major Onion transplanting on flat bed Onion transplanting on raised bed Sulphur application into soil before onion transplanting Indian Horticulture 18 nutrients soil application, water soluble fertilizers and micronutrients can be sprayed to enhance growth and yield of onion crop. At 30 and 45 days after transplanting (DAT), 0.5% spray of 19:19:19 (NPK) and one spray of 0.5% 13:00:45 or 00:00:50 during 60-70 DAT enhances crop growth and yield. If soils are deficient in micronutrients and plant shows particular micronutrient’s deficiency symptoms etc. are severe problems of onion. For management of thrips, damping off, wilt and Colletotrichum blight (twister) refer nursery management part (after transplanting stage). Purple blotch can be managed by difenaconazole 25% EC @ 40 ml in 200 litre of water spray. Stemphyllium leaf blight can be managed by mancozeb 2.5 g/litre of water spray. Iris yellow spot disease (Virus) transmitted through onion thrips and can be managed by adapting thrips management practices. Onion maggot management practices y Avoid successive planting of onion in the same field and follow crop rotation. y Use well decomposed cow dung manure. y Soils that are rich in un-decomposed matter should be avoided. y Avoid close planting of onions to reduce movement of maggots in the nearby areas. y Drenching of the chlorpyrifos with irrigation at 1.6-2 litre/acre is to be done before transplanting or when infestation starts to appear. y After hand weeding, fipronil 80% WG can be applied in the soil at 1 kg/acre followed by irrigation. Harvesting, cutting and bulb yield Duration of rabi onion crop varies due to several factors, viz. variety, soil, climate, etc. Generally a bulb matures at about 110-130 days after transplanting and harvested one week after 50% neck fall.