 Very recently, researchers found that TF PbbHLH4 regulates the geranyl diphosphate synthase gene for monoterpenoid synthesis in Phalaenopsis bellina while MYB1 has been identified as phenylpronoid gene regulator in Cymbidium species. Both these genes are responsible for floral scent profiles. Future prospects Versatility and diversity of orchid plants have clinched the attention to explore this unique group of plant in diversified arena. Despite having broad-array of socio- economical and ethno-botanical importance, its secured position is yet to be made in mainstream commercial trade. But illegal harvesting and non-sustainable use of majority of orchid species has noticeably put their existence in question. In this backdrop, to reap the utmost benefit of this taxonomically unique group of plants, appropriate conservation is mandatory. Their horticultural, nutritional, pharmaceutical and cultural importance may open several promising vistas to enrich the national economy. Hence, some stringent legal-regulatory action could strengthen orchid conservation which consequently will facilitate to unveil the potential of orchids at different scales. For further interaction, please write to: Moumita Malakar (Assistant Professor), Department of Horticulture and Floriculture, Central University of Tamil Nadu, Neelakudy, Thiruvarur, Tamil Nadu 610 005. *Corresponding author’s email: moumitamalakar@cutn.ac.in Table 1. Food composition of raw edible orchids Food component Composition (in terms of 100 g of edible portion) Measure Food energy 115 Calories Moisture 70 Per cent Protein 1.3 Grams Fat 0 Grams Carbohydrates (including fibre) 27.6 Grams Ash 1.1 Grams Calcium 48 Milligrams Iron 7.8 Milligrams Indian Horticulture 36 R K Singh*, Mritunjay Rai, Arvind Kumar, Awani Kumar Singh and A C Mishra Technology D uring summer and winter season in north India in general and Bundelkhand in particular, it is extremely difficult to grow vegetables in open field conditions; however, with creation of false micro-climate through modified protected structures, some high-value crops and vegetables could easily be grown continuously. In northern India particularly at semi-arid region like Bundelkhand, the summer (April to July), the rainy (July to October) and the winter (November to February) are the major hot- spot seasons. However, in protected cultivation, growing season can easily be extended and one or two more short duration crops could easily be taken which further adds to increased crop yield per unit per day as compared to open field conditions. Moreover, the cultivation of high value crops/vegetables in protected condition can play a better role in improving quality and advancing maturity as well as increasing fruiting span. In Uttar Pradesh, at poor resourced farmers’ level, the popularity of protected cultivation has not been encouraging.