 The testing chamber has provision for venting to enable complete exposure to the external environment, if required. The temperature of the system can be elevated up to 48–50°C to simulate severe hot weather conditions. An automatic temperature controller, monitors and regulates the temperature. Refrigeration system was designed and installed in the test chamber of milk cooling system. The cooling tank was installed outside the test chamber. A multiple channel data logger was installed to record temperature of test chamber. efficiency of rainwater harvesting system. It also estimated various parameters such as inflow volume, storage, release, spillage (tank overflow), deficit, cumulative deficit, cumulative demand and deficit rate. The developed model analyzes the combination of different roof sizes, demand and tank sizes for planning, design and implementation of RWH system in a different climatic region. Solar energy for FCV tobacco curing: A polycarbonate chamber on roof-top of tobacco curing barn (24’×16’×10.6’) was designed and developed to make use of solar energy through greenhouse effect for reducing the wood consumption in curing FCV tobacco. Polycarbonated roof chamber, increased the leaf temperature in all the layers, especially in top layers of the barn. Fuelwood to an extent of 22.0–25.0% could be saved with polycarbonate roof barn when compared to traditional barn. Frying oil quality management: A test rig was developed and fabricated to carry out study on quality of ghee during frying. During trials of frying oil test rig, it was observed that the operating environment was smoky. The test rig was upgraded with a smoke removal mechanism. Electrical properties measurement unit was developed using parallel plate system, two wire system and two rod system. The purpose of this unit was to select and optimize the sensor for measuring properties of oil. The fryer can be cleaned by rinsing with any alkali to remove any tar buildup on the surface. ❑ freshwater in water scarce regions. A Water Balance Simulation Model (WBSM) was developed to simulate the performance of RWH system under different climatic regions. The model considers daily rainfall, losses due to leakage/spillage, roof area and daily water demand as input parameters. The model determines the optimum tank size and analyses the liability and water saving 10. Post-harvest Management and Value-addition Manually operated small onion grader: Grading of small onion or multiplier onion (Allium cepa var. aggregatum), one of the most important commercial vegetables grown mainly in southern India according to their sizes adds value to the product and economic gain to the farmer while marketing them. The optimum operating parameters of the developed grader are— rotational speed of drum, 15 rpm; slope, 4° and feed rate, 200 kg/h. The grading efficiency was 93.1% and there was no damage of onions at the optimized operating conditions.