0% increase in crop yield (rice-rice at Cuttack and rice-wheat during rabi) at Punjab and Haryana) in microbial consortium applied treatments (NRRI microbial consortium or Pusa decomposer) as compared to conventional practice. The GHGs emissions, i.e. methane and nitrous oxide flux from rice fields were measured during the rabi season at NRRI, Cuttack indicated that the order of emissions was; residue incorporation > residue retention > conventional tillage > zero tillage. An integrated seeder cum microbial inoculum applicator machine was developed for in situ rice-residues management. The technology facilitates cutting of rice residue, decomposing microbial culture application, residue incorporation and seeding in one go. The average straw size reduced to 12.78 cm after field operation. Hyperspectral signatures of soil samples collected from different agro-ecological sub-regions of India. BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 156 sequencing (72 own data+10 online data) subjected to quality filtering and the sequence reads were aligned to the Bos taurus reference genome assembly (ARS-UCD1.3) for variant calling, employing a range of bioinformatics tools. Several parameters were calculated to evaluate the genetic diversity within the Sahiwal population. Subsequently, a total of 146 regions were identified as undergoing selective sweeps. These regions were associated with improved immune systems and disease resistance (IFNL3, IRF8, BLK), as well as production traits (NRXN1, PLCE1, GHR). The gene interleukin 2 (IL2) located on Chr17: 35217075-35223276 was identified as being linked to tick resistance. Additionally, a cluster of genes (HSPA8, UBASH3B, ADAMTS18, CRTAM) associated with heat stress was observed. For Tharparkar cattle, several candidate genes that have undergone positive selection were revealed in the analysis. These genes were associated with various traits such as milk production (ADARB, WDR70, and CA8), reproductive traits (PARN, FAM134B2, and ZBTB20), and health-related characteristics (SP110, CXCL2, CLXCL3, CXCL5, IRF8, and MYOM1). Furthermore, research was extended to the investigation of copy number variations in Tharparkar cattle selection signatures in the MHC region and coat colour across various Indian cattle breeds. Development of Transgenic Chicken as bioreactor for easy and cost-effective production of human therapeutic proteins-tissue plasminogen activator (htPA) and erythropoietin (hERP): The gene construct for htPA and hERP was synthesised and transformed into the DH5α (E. coli) cells. Screening for positive colonies for both the constructs was carried out by broth PCR using the gene specific primers. Further screening of plasmids was also carried out using the PUC57 vector backbone primers and sufficient numbers of plasmids were isolated for further use. The magnum cell culture procedure was standardized. The positive plasmids of the hERP and htPA constructs were transfected using gene pulsator.