 In laboratory trials, maximum 62 stakes/ min were planted at wheel speed of 1,421 rpm and cutting blade speed of 38 rpm. The average length of stake cut and dia were 16 cm and 31 mm respectively. The estimated cost of the planter is ` 95,000 which covers 0.36 ha/ hr@ row-to-row spacing of 90 cm. Two-row hand cranking type paddy transplanter: The hand cranking type transplanter for root-washed seedlings consists of a seedling tray, seedling picking mechanism, nursery holding and pushing mechanism, nursery shifter-cum-erector, power transmission system, float and handle. The size of transplanter is 550 × 450 × 930 mm3 with weight of 14.6 kg and costing ` 6,500. The field capacity is 0.03 ha/h and cost of transplanting ` 2,600/ha (71% less than manual transplanting). The heart rate for male and female workers was 108 and 118 beats/min, respectively. The overall discomfort rating (ODR) was 38 % less than traditional method due to reduced bending posture. Self-propelled 8 row pre-germinated rice seeder: Pre-germinated rice seeds are broadcast on the puddled soil under wet seeding of rice in most of the developed countries. To mechanize the operation, a self-propelled pre-germinated rice seeder, having cup feed type metering mechanism was developed. The seeder drills seeds in eight rows at a row spacing of 238 mm and hill spacing of 120 mm. The seeder covers 0.25 ha/hr as compared to 0.19 ha/hr for manually drawn 8 row drum seeder. The cost of seeding was ` 810/ha. Hand-held vegetable transplanter: A gender friendly double lever hand-held vegetable transplanter was developed for transplanting of vegetable plug seedlings in soil or plastic mulch bed. For transplanting seedlings, the operator has to lift the equipment with the handle to about 20-30 cm above the soil bed; release it to fall free by gravity and penetrate into the bed by its own weight. A single plug seedling is then placed into the seedling tube to fix the plug/root of the seedling into the pit. The clutch levers are to be pressed by operator simultaneously with upward movement of the equipment to transplant seedlings. The transplanting rate for tomato and chilli with male and female workers was 15 to 17 seedlings/min with two workers. Mechanical intra- and inter-row weeder for wide spaced field crops: Mechanical control is among the most important classical weed management methods. Mechanical weeding has distinct advantage over chemical weeding i.e. slow growth of weeds and no adverse effect on plant growth. Presently no mechanical weeder is available for intra-row weeding of field crop. Combinations of active and passive tools were used to develop an intra- and inter-row weeder for field crops. Spring tyne (length 260 mm) and sweep (width 250 mm) were used for intra- and inter-row weeding operation, respectively. The intra-row weeding tool rotates around a horizontal axis parallel to the direction of travel, which is positioned directly above the crop row and moves along it.