 Agronomical and engineering measures like mulching, res­ idue retention, conservation agriculture, bunding, terracing, etc., may be adopted to ensure long-term land management (Kar et al., 2018; Mahala, 2020). To combat land degradation and climate change, India promised, during the 14th Conference of Parties, to rehabilitate 26 million ha of deteriorated land by 2030 (Kar et al., 2022). With the increased concern for an elevated level of atmospheric CO2 concentration due to climate change and GHS emission, the carbon sequestration as terrestrial CO2 stock in the form of soil organic carbon (SOC) by adopting various climate-resilient agricultural practices has much potential for regulating the global carbon cycle (Wang et al., 2010). To combat the problems mentioned above, it necessitates adopting climate-smart and sustainable land management methods. In this instance, conservation agriculture (CA), which consists of the least soil disturbance, incorporation of crop residues, and crop rotation, may be a climate-adaptive and economic land management practice to restore soil health (Franzluebbers, 2010; Pittelkow et al., 2015). CA enhances soil organic matter (SOM) content, sequesters soil carbon, and improves the processes favouring declined runoff and soil erosion rates in contrast to traditional agriculture (Palm et al., 2014). Furthermore, it has the potential to raise the soil fertility level by enrichment of surface soil with organic matter and vertical stratification of SOC with soil depth (Franzluebbers, 2010; Dalal et al., 2011). Studies showed that zero tillage (ZT) has higher SOC concentration and higher SOC stock than conventional tillage (CT) due to more sequestration of C in soils, which ultimately helps to lessen atmospheric carbon emission (Das et al., 2013). The environment of that particular location largely controls the SOM stock in the soil. However, anthropogenic interferences, viz. change in land use, intensive tillage, etc., degrade the inherent SOM status (Wood et al., 2000; Magdoff and Weil, 2004). However, the depletion of SOM stock occurs due to various unscientific land use management practices. Stratified SOM distribution over depth in a CA system has several soil functional benefits, and it changes depending on soil disturbance level, cropping intensity, and length of cultivation (Magdoff and Weil, 2004). SOC is a key factor in determining soil characteristics and productivity. With the increase in the concentration of SOC in soil, soil health im­ proves due to better stable aggregates, more water retention, and hence becomes less prone to erosion (Krishan et al., 2009; Tiwari et al., 2015). As surface SOM regulates soil health, soil erosion rate, etc., the degree of stratification of SOM with depth may be included as a quality indicator of soil under different land use practices (Franzluebbers, 2002a).