 Further, tools and implements repository, database on gender friendly tool packages for paddy, vegetables and maize, checklists and test protocol for hand ridger were developed under the project “Ergonomic Studies for Increasing Work Efficiency and Productivity of Farm Women”. SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 105 the changing faces of rural livelihoods in India, the AICRP on Home Science carried out the family and group entrepreneurship development with market linkage looking for sustainability in their livelihood security. Under the project Characterization of drudgery of women in the production environment and assessment of technology packages in mitigating drudgery, drudgery of women was characterized for three crops and five production systems in the operational villages. The results indicated how location and factors impacted drudgery in production system. Seed-cum fertilizer dibbler, rice picker, sapling transplanter and flower harvest bag were ergonomically evaluated after field interventions. Twenty-six technologies were up-scaled and disseminated among SHG groups for mitigating drudgeny of farm women. A standardized questionnaire was prepared to combat nutritional problem among farm families in which information on socio-economic status, assessment of haemoglobin status, anthropometric assessment, clinical signs and symptoms, assessment of knowledge, awareness and practice (KAP) among adolescent girls, nutrient intake by the adolescent girls was collected. Out of 5,069 school going adolescent girls 2,932 were screened out with haemoglobin level less than 12g / dl. Diet survey of subjects was done before intervention programme. Among all the 10 centres the mean energy intake for both control and experimental group was lowest for Rajasthan centre i.e. and highest in Karnataka centre. Protein rich recipes, viz. mix pulse shev, proteimix powder, peas stick and millet and moringa powder based value added products were developed and transferred into rural entrepreneurship For combating occupational health hazards functional clothing kit, viz. head gear with mask, protective shirt and pant, gloves, apron, protective kurta without hood, protective kurta with hood, triangular mask and knitted fabric face cover were designed and developed for the workers engaged in different activities in agriculture, agriculture allied sectors and assessed for its suitability and acceptability among workers through trials. Refinement in apron, pleated mask and knitted gloves was done according to suggestions of respondents. Non conventional fibres from underutilized plant sources (bhindi fiber) and non woven fabric were used for making different products, viz. shopping bag, pen stand, purse, tea cozy, pot mat, coaster, file cover, seed pot etc. A sample of academically backward children (1,167) from 10 centres, was selected for developing competency of rural youth in agriculture.