 CONCLUSION Spraying of animal urine mixed with starch followed by dusting of cow dung ash was found to be effective in controlling insects in lady's finger.  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Code :1415 Title of the ITK :Control of insect pests in cucurbits, cowpea and lady's finger by spraying urine of domestic animals mixed with tobacco soaked water Description of the ITK : Insects on leaves and fruits of cucurbits, cowpea and lady's finger are very common. These are controlled by spraying urine of domestic animals mixed with tobacco soaked water. This age-old practice has been adopted by 56% farmers in Bahadurpur village of Dhanbad district in Jharkhand. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Nepal Chandar Ojha, Bahadurpur, Bagsuma, Dhanbad (Jharkhand) Location of use of the ITK : Village Bahadurpur, Post Bagsuma, Block Govindpur, Dhanbad (Jharkhand) Experimenters : Dr. N. Kudada, Assistant Professor cum _Junior Scientist, Department of Plant Pathology, Shri S.K. Sawaiyan, SRF (ITK- NATP) and Dr. R.P. Singh `Ratan', Head, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) METHODOLOGY Location Village Bahadurpur, Post Bagsuma, Block Govindpur, Dhanbad (Jharkhand) PRA and field study Field study was conducted following the PRA methodology with 15 respondents. The reported ITK was compared with recommended chemical control measure on four parameters i.e. insect control, cost effectiveness, availability of materials and popularity. Experiment An experiment was conducted on lady's finger in R.B.D. in 12 replications with three treatments, viz., T1 - Control, T2 - Use of animal urine mixed with tobacco soaked water (@ 25 kg tobacco stalk soaked in water and mixed with 500 litre of animal urine/ha) and T3 - Application of monocrotophos @ 1.0 litre/ha. Observations were recorded on the parameters like number of infested fruits and extent of control. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study The data presented in Table1 show that spraying of chemical insecticide was more effective in controlling insect pests in cucurbits and cowpea than the ITK. The ITK was more effective than chemical insecticide for lady's finger. Experiment Results obtained have been presented in Table2 which indicate that use of monocrotophos reduced the number of infested fruit which was 2.9/m2 as compared to 19.8/m2 fruits in control. In the treatment where animal urine mixed with tobacco soaked water was used, the number of infested fruits/m2 was 6.3 which was at par with use of monocrotophos. Extent of control of fruit  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Table 1. Matrix scoring for assessment of performance of spraying of cowurine of domestic animals with tobacco soaked water vis-à-vis use of chemical insecticide N=15 Parameter Animal urine+tobacco soaked water Chemical insecticide Cucurbits Cowpea Lady's finger Curcurbits Cowpea Lady's finger Insect control 6.26 6.13 8.93 8.93 8.53 8.66 Cost effectiveness 5.06 5.46 6.93 3.86 5.06 5.20 Availability 4.66 5.60 5.60 3.