 Installation of mini-grading machines and cold room at village level Strategy 10: Online Management and Evaluation i. Development of mobile apps/ software for online management and evaluation at Distt. level. ii. Development of e-Marketing and kiosk at Distt level to have information of surplus commodities at block level. iii. Organisation of monthly review meeting at Distt level for market surplus and situation of hill agriculture. iv. Promotion of radio, TV talks Whatsapp and FB for effective implementation of program. High-Hill Zone Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement i. Cluster approach for holistic development of Horticultural sector and traditional millets and grains. ii. Promotion of Spur and colour mutants in apple in high hills in Shimla and Kinnaur Distt. iii. Distribution of seed and other inputs timely. iv. Promotion of sufficient and assured supply of HYV seed and inputs. v. Distribution of reliable planting material of temperate plants to farmers. Management of wild animal problem vi. Minimizing damage of wild boar in field crops through legislative control. vii. Promotion of ITK practices in management of monkey, porcupines, langoor and others. Input management viii. Promotion of vermi-composting and vermi-wash. ix. Promoting timely and judicious use of fertilizers based on soil and water testing reports. x. Promote conservation and water harvesting techniques. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 201 xi. Promotion of mulch in fruit crops in juvenile stage. xii. Construction of small plastic sheet tank (5x3x2mts) for water storage. xiii. Development of small sprinkler and drips for small and large land holding. Strategy 2: Livestock: Goatry, Poultry, Fisheries i. Replacement of local breeds with high milch breeds viz. cross breed jersey cow. ii. Introduction of Gaddi and Barbari breed of goat and Merino cross and Gaddi of sheep in high hills for high income. iii. Availability of poultry feed with low prices. iv. Organisation of timely health check-ups of animals. Strategy 3: Integrated Farming System i. Protected cultivation+ Composting+Goatry/backyard poultry ii. Fodder production+ Mini dairy+Composting+ Protected cultivation iii. Seed production (Amaranthus or Kuttu)+ Planting material supply Strategy 4: Reducing post harvest losses and value addition i. Establishment of small processing units for local milk. ii. Establishment of grading and packing units for apple and other temperate fruits at block level. Strategy 5: Waste land development and waste water i. Implementing wild fruit plants like Bhamora, chestnut, hazelnut and black walnut to meet future needs. ii. Promotion of different fodder trees (Khirik, Utees, Oak). Strategy 6: Reduced cultivation cost i. Encourage use of well decomposed FYM or vermicompost, biofertilizers and avoidance or minimum use of chemical fertilizers. ii. Avoid broadcasting of seeds and fertilizers in crop production program. iii.