 □ Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser : Location of use of the ITK Experimenters 2132 Guddeli to uproot ginger Good harvest with total recovery of ginger with less power is obtained by use of guddeli at harvest. It is easy to operate and cost of operation per hour is Rs 300. The cost of guddeli is Rs 60 per piece. Shri Pandu, Girgitpally, mandal Vikarabad, district Ranga Reddy (Andhra Pradesh) Village Girgitpally, mandal Vikarabad, district Ranga Reddy (Andhra Pradesh) Dr B.Sanjeeva Reddy, Scientist, Senior Scale (FMP), Dr G. Nirmala, Scientist, Senior Scale, (Agric. Extn) and Dr V. Maruthi, Senior Scientist (Agron), Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad METHODOLOGY Girigatepalli village of Vikarabad mandal of Ranga Reddy district, where the ITK is being practised was chosen for validation of the practice during 2002-03 and 2003-04. The farmers of the village were stratified as per the size of the land holding into marginal (< 1.0 ha), small (1-2 ha), medium (2-4 ha) and big (>4 ha). The farmers were selected by stratified random sampling, representing 10% under each category. Focus group interactions were organized to identify the farmers to participate in the validation process voluntarily. The hand tools as per the specification of guddeli were fabricated with the help of local artisans. Five fanners representing different categories in each year were selected and trained to acquaint the various methodologies to implement the programme of validation. Based upon the interaction of the selected farmers, an understanding was developed between the farmers and facilitators of the investigation in selection of the experimental sites, implementation of the programme and collection of the relevant data. The critical inputs required for the investigation like hand tool and fertilizer were provided. The farmers contributed for the investigation in terms of land preparation, ginger rhizomes for transplanting, imposition of the treatments and harvesting of the experimental produce. The relevant data of the investigation were jointly collected by the farmers and facilitators. This process facilitated increase in participation of the farming community and also brought about awareness on the utility of the implement and recording the farmers' indicators on the efficiency and effectiveness of the implement under their own situations. Each farmer was treated as a replication and statistical analysis of data for various parameters were done to find out actual effectiveness of the treatments. The parameters such as field capacity, energy expenditure and cost of operation to carry out the operation using different hand-tools were worked out based upon the formulae given below. Field capacity: It was the actual average rate of field coverage by the implement (ha/day or ha/hr).