 Integrated Plant Nutrient Supply (IPNS) System Integrated plant nutrient supply system (IPNS) on maize (Pioneer) and groundnut (TMV 2) during summer revealed that both maize and groundnut gave the highest yield when 50% of the inorganic fertilizers were substituted with farmyard manure (FYM), followed by substitution of inorganics only to an extent of 25%. However, Soil Test based Crop Response (STCR) approach of fertilizer recommendation was better compared to general fertilizer recommendation and farmers’ practice. Frontline demonstrations conducted on groundnut (TMV 7,JL 24,VRI 2), sunflower (PAC 8699) and gingelly (TMV 4 and VRI 1) on red and lateritic soils revealed that addition of 12.5 tonnes FYM/ha saved 35, 18 and 40 kg/ha of N, P2O5 and K2O, respectively. Soil test based recommendations and IPNS recorded the highest yields of 1,910 kg/ha in sunflower, 2,390 kg/ha in groundnut and 950 kg/ha in gingelly. Integrated Plant Nutrient System (IPNS) in Soybean-Wheat Cropping System Under FAO-ICAR-IFFCO collaborative project, soil test based application of chemical fertilizers along with organic manure has been demonstrated in irrigated soybean-wheat cropping system of Malwa region. Soil test based fertilizer recommendations resulted in significant increase in number of pods/plant compared to farmers’ practices. Application of 4 tonnes/ha of organics along with STCR based dose of fertilizers was found to produce highest yield of soybean in the region. Effect of Mycorrhizal Inoculations on Aonla The effect of mycorrhizal inoculations on the improved varieties of aonla (Emblica officinalis), viz. Kanchan, NA 7, Krishna and Chakaiya recorded 65.8%, 75.2%, 76.3% and 70.12% colonization, respectively. Field patterns at Jhansi,Bundelkhand indicate that lowland aonla plants are less mycorrhizal as compared to upland ones. Inoculation of Ziziphus mauritiana and Emblica officinalis with Acaulospora denticulata and Glomus etunicatum significantly increased collar diameter and total dry matter yield over control. WATER MANAGEMENT Performance Evaluation of Cavity Wells as Recharge-cum-Irrigation Wells A sand column with two heights (180 and 145 cm) was tested for purification of recharge water was not found effective in removing the pathogens, yet it removed turbidity effectively. The recharge rate from the filter was 16.58 l/s (from a surface of –100 sq m), which reduced to one-half within 2 hours due to clogging. In another ENHANCING RHIZOSPHERE COMPETENCY OF RHIZOBIUM Antagonistic bacteria which are capable of suppressing harmful bacteria and fungi in the rhizosphere of legumes capable of enhancing the performance of Rhizobium for nodulation, nitrogen fixation and improved yields upon co-inoculation were isolated and tested in controlled and multi-location field experiments. Competitive rhizobia capable of producing siderophores, with intrinsic resistance to antibiotics and phages were identified and their nitrogen fixing potential was assessed.