 The Special Issue on Digital Horticulture may be helpful in streamlining the ongoing research programmes in NAREES involving next gen technologies at different Research Institutes and State Agricultural Universities. This may also be helpful in finalizing a concrete programme for research and effective implementation of Digital Horticulture technologies so that a complete package of practices may be developed and disseminated to the growers to meet the demand for horticultural produce by different segments by 2047 and beyond. Sanjay Kumar Singh Deputy Director General (Horticultural Science) Indian Council of Agricultural Research December 2024 Indian Horticulture 4 Status Paper Sanjay Kumar Singh*, V. B. Patel, P. C. Tripathi and Anup Bhattacharjee Digital horticulture: Status and future prospects Horticulture faces significant challenges due to the variability of natural conditions such as weather, pests, soil, and climate. Indoor production in greenhouses, along with digital horticultural innovations, provides a controlled environment that can optimize conditions for crop growth. Digital horticulture integrates digital technologies like IoT, AI, and precision farming, enabling enhanced efficiency, quality, and sustainability in horticultural production. Key digital tools include remote sensors, drones, and machine learning, which support informed decision- making for crop management and resource allocation. IoT and digital twins enable real-time monitoring, automation, and remote management in greenhouse settings. AI aids in pest and disease monitoring, crop health analysis, and optimal harvest timing, while precision irrigation systems increase water-use efficiency, as seen in trials on grapes, banana, and tomato crops. Digital solutions also enhance post- harvest management, traceability, and e-commerce. Despite adoption challenges due to high costs, limited access, and security concerns, digital advancements are expected to transform horticulture, driving productivity, sustainability, and climate resilience in the face of evolving global food security needs. H ORTICULTURE is characterised by great variety and variability of production because of involvement of living and perishable commodities, and production depends on natural conditions such as weather situation, pests and diseases, soil condition, season and climate. Indoor production in greenhouses is a strategy to cope with these uncertainties, resulting in a more controlled production environment to optimise weather conditions, fertigation, light and moisture. Due to the existing uncertainties resulting from the erratic weather patterns, pests and quality loss, as well as new challenges, especially concerning to energy management, growers continuously have to reassess the cultivation strategies and reschedule planned activities based on the timely monitoring of the greenhouse operations to achieve their goals.