 For further interaction, please write to Dr Akula Chinapolaiah (Scientist), ICAR-Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research, Boriavi, Anand, Gujarat 387 310. *Corresponding author: acpolireddy.hortico@gmail.com Senna crop at full flowering stage Indian Horticulture 22 Nagori ashwagandha: A viable alternative crop for arid ecosystem India is a vast country with a wide range of agro-climatic conditions. Medicinal crops like ashwagandha are very sensitive to soil and climatic conditions. Region specific cultivation has the potential to provide benefits in terms of environmental protection, conservation of species and improved raw drug quality. India is bestowed with a lot of potential to produce medicinal crops in particular agro-ecological regions because the country has diverse agro-climatic regions. Therefore, region specific cultivation of ashwagandha for better performance under sandy plains of central to western Rajasthan will be targeted. Keeping in view the above facts, ashwagandha elite (DTWr-1) should be cultivated in particular agro-climatic pockets to boost the productivity and quality of raw drug. At the same time, farmers can earn more than ` 2.5 to 3.00 Lakhs per hectare within 180-185 days under Chahi condition of sandy plains of central to western Rajasthan. W ITHANIA somnifera L. Dunal is also known as Asgandh, Ashwagandha, Winter Cherry, Indian ginseng in different regions as well language. Withania refers to the ‘primary extract of plants’ and somnifera means ‘sleep-inducing’ drug. Ashwagandha is named because it smells like a horse and person consuming root extract may develop strength and vitality similar to horse. It is an herb used in Ayurvedic medicine in the traditional system from long back. Ashwagandha was first mentioned by learned Punarvasu Atreya over 4000 years ago. Subsequently the medicinal properties of this plant were mentioned in Ayurvedic treatises such as Charaka Samhita, Sushruta Samhita, Astanga Hridaya, Bhava Prakasha Nighantu etc. It is widely used as a tonic and a sedative in several countries due to its adaptogenic properties. Roots extract slow down the ageing process, increase longevity and mental as well as physical strength. It is also referred to as a ‘Royal Herb’ possessing multiple therapeutic effects in the different human body systems (immune system, neurological and endocrinal system, the aerobic energy-production system) including reproductive system. In Ayurveda, it is has aphrodisiac, sedative, anxiolytic, rejuvenating and life-prolonging properties. The root extract or powder has been traditionally used to promote youthful vigour, endurance, strength, health, and increasing the production of vital fluids, muscle fat, blood, lymph, semen, and cells. It acts as a stimulant, thus increasing the sperm count. Plant part used The part used is the dried root, traditionally used as a powder and dry extract.