 To address this initiative a committee was constituted for developing syllabus and curricula on Natural Farming at Undergraduate (UG) and Postgraduate (PG) level ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 129 under the chairmanship of Dr Anupam Mishra, Vice Chancellor, CAU Imphal, with the following ToR: Developing syllabus and curricula of Natural Farming for UG and PG level including theory and practical. Developing guidelines for entrepreneurship under student “READY” programme in the area of natural farming. The syllabus and curricula developed was discussed in the 6th Deans Committee meeting held 6 September, 2022. The notification for starting a degree course in AUs from the current academic year was issued by Agricultural Education Division, ICAR on 31st March, 2023. The sub committee was also constituted to align the syllabus and curricula developed as per the guidelines and norms of NEP-2020 and Sixth Deans’ Committee during the final meeting of the sub committee was held during 26-27 September, 2023. Development and restructuring of undergraduate programme in Natural Farming has been done as per NEP guidelines to build strong foundation of knowledge among students with increased practical exposure and skilling to build competence and confidence for the application of the gained knowledge. Student READY programmes Rural Agricultural Work Experience and Experiential Learning Modules (RAWE): This is one of the key components of the UG degree programme in agriculture and related areas, conducted in 7th semester. The main idea is to acquaint the students regarding the actual constrains/challenges by exposing them to the rural settings. Skills of students are improved as they learn to tackle the problems in field by multidisciplinary and participatory approach. An online portal for data recording under the Student “READY” programme has been developed. In this, students gets knowledge regarding latest developments in the agriculture and allied areas. Furthermore, apart from disseminating knowledge to farmers about latest technologies, crop protection methods, etc. students are exposed to managing commercial farms during visits to progressive farmers. Also, students are acquainted with various agri- Commercially successful products from ELP Units Students of ELP Unit “Value Addition of Horticultural Crops” industries and are provided with excellent opportunity to learn about varied businesses. The course therefore, helps convert theoretical knowledge to practical knowledge through hands on experience and practical training depending on the requirements of respective discipline. Regular interactions and presentations by students improve communication skills of the students. During last year, 16,261 students were trained under RAWE. One module on “Skill Development in Natural Farming with Eco-friendly Marketable Product Generation’ was provided to Faculty of Agriculture, SKUAST-Jammu, Chatha.