 Against specific request, information support was extended for consulting the database of the centre for Agriculture and Bio- sciences International (formerly the Commonwealth Agricultural Bureaux International). The document-delivery service was extended to individuals and libraries against specific requests for supply of Indian documents from AGRIS database. The Hindi Library at the headquarters purchased 261 books and subscribed to multiple copies of Hindi magazines. It issued 5,000 books to its 750 members. Since July 1994, the ICAR Library has been arranging payment of newspaper bills to the ICAR officers who are eligible for getting newspapers at their residence. Publicity and Public Relations Unit The Publicity and Public Relations Unit plays a pivotal role in dissemination of information pertaining to agriculture and allied subjects, policy decisions and PUBLICATIONS AND INFORMATION 231 achievements of the research set-up of the ICAR, i.e. Central Institutes, National Bureaux, Project Directorates, National Research Centres and All-India Co-ordinated Research Projects, etc. to the print and electronic media. For effective communication of research findings among the farmers and public, the PR Unit maintains an effective liaison with the media persons. It is responsible for publicizing the achievements of ICAR in the country and abroad. It also organizes press conferences/briefings addressed by the Union Agriculture Minister, Minister of State for Agriculture, DG, ICAR, DDG’s and Directors of various research institutes and projects. The PR Unit broadly performs the following functions: Liaison with print and electronic media: The unit issued material of immediate value to various newspapers, agricultural and current affairs magazines and electronic media from time to time to give a wide publicity to the events. Such material received adequate coverage in the media at national and international level. This unit also runs a feedback service for senior officials of the ICAR. The unit keeps eyes on the print media and provides relevant newspaper clippings to the DG, ICAR and other senior officers of the Council on daily basis.