 During 2012-13 to 2016-17, 1786 enterprises have been established, out of which 55% (986 participants) were trained at ICAR- CIAE. Out of those participants who have established and running there custom hiring centres for more than a year (Sample size 110 entrepreneurs and 330 beneficiary farmers) were surveyed through personal visit. The data collected from various custom hiring enterprises and famers broadly include the financial details of the enterprise, machines owned, crops and operations for which custom hiring services being offered, custom hiring rates etc. and feedback, future requirements and constraints faced by entrepreneurs and farmers both. Overall business-service scenario of custom hiring centres Data from Custom hiring service centres was also collected for profitability and the services they are providing in terms of area coverage and number of families being served, which has been summarized as below in Table 1. Constraints faced by entrepreneurs During survey, opinion of the entrepreneurs was also collected for the constraints being faced by them. The analysis of the same is given below. i. Availability of repair-main- tenance facility: 65.5% told that adequate repair and maintenance facility was available in their area for the m a c h i n e s available with them. While, 33.6% showed concern about t i m e l y availability of the facility even when adequate R e p a i r - M a i n t e n a n c e facilities are available within the vicinity. ii. Delay in payment: This has been observed as the biggest constraint, as almost 90% entrepreneurs told that they worked on credit basis and sometimes they received the payment from season to season. Only 10.9% didn’t have any problem related to payments from the farmers. iii. Availability of driver/operator: Approx. 28% entrepreneurs are facing problem in availability of experienced operator. 72% didn’t face any problem in this matter. Benefits of training at ICAR-CIAE, as perceived by entrepreneurs The entrepreneurs trained at CIAE also shared their opinion about the way they have been benefited with training at ICAR-CIAE. Benefits to farmers Besides survey of entrepreneurs, the associated/client farmers, who have been availing the custom hiring services form the entrepreneurs were also surveyed for the benefits realized from them. A total of 330 farmers (3-4 farmers associated with each entrepreneur) were interviewed and it was observed that the small farmers have been getting the machines for various operations timely from these entrepreneurs, which has precisely been the objective of the scheme i.e.