2%) Plant Quarantine A total of 138,364 samples of crops including 91 transgenics were processed for quarantine clearance; comprising 132,271 under import and 6,093 under export. Some important interceptions, not yet reported from India, include pathogens (Peronospora manschurica, downy mildew in Glycine max from the USA) and insects (Bruchophagus gibbus in Medicago sativa from the USA; Bruchus ervi in Lens culinaris from Syria; Sitophilus granarius in Triticum aestivum from the USA). Of the export samples, 248 samples found infested/infected were salvaged before release. Thirty-one phytosanitary certificates were issued for the material under export. ELISA testing of 30 samples, out of 91 (sunflower, Parthenium and other weeds), showed positive results against tobacco streak virus (TSV). TSV was also found positive in 70 advanced breeding lines of groundnut developed by the ICRISAT. GERMPLASM REGISTERED Crop No. of genotypes Paddy 13 Pigeonpea 6 Groundnut 4 Coffee 7 Cotton 40 Miscellaneous 22 Mucuna prurita seeds variability, assembled at the NBPGR Regional Station, Jodhpur Fruit variability in citrus species, collected from the central Himalayan Region Fruit variability in less-known vegetable of Himalayan Region, chow-chow (Sechium edule) Ziziphus species fruit variability, maintained at the NBPGR Station, Jodhpur CROP IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 15 IN-VITRO CRYOPRESERVATION OF DIOSCOREA Dioscorea deltoidea and D. floribunda are the important sources of diosgenin, an alkaloid used in steroidal drugs. Successful protocols for shoot-tips cryopreservation of these with subsequent high frequency of plant regeneration have been developed. Periodical testing of these from cryostorage has revealed that they can be maintained with unaltered regeneration frequency up to 12 and 18 months, respectively. And the regenerated plants, after cryopreservation, were found with unaltered capacity for diosgenin production. DNA Fingerprinting Cereals and millets. A total of 76 non-aromatic rice varieties were fingerprinted using Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism (AFLP) markers. Sequence Tagged Microsatellite (STMS) and AFLP markers were used for fingerprinting 137 wheat varieties. Sorghum cultivars (38) were profiled using 6 fluorescently labelled STMS primer pairs. Pulses. Pigeonpea (31) and chickpea (36) varieties were fingerprinted using RAPD, AFLP and STMS markers; in chickpea AFLP and STMS markers were highly efficient. Oilseeds. Brassica accessions (42) belonging to B. juncea, B. carinata, B. campestris, B. nigra, B. napus and Eruca sativa were fingerprinted using AFLP- based DNA markers. Seventy-eight released cultivars of soybean were fingerprinted with 12 most informative primers. Safflower cultivars (14) were fingerprinted using 15 AFLP primer pairs. AFLP analysis of 72 Indian soybean cultivars indicated presence of moderately high genetic diversity; much of the diversity appeared to be due to 12 varieties. Fibre crops.