 Quality parameters for feed barley Grain protein, hecto-litre weight, hulled/huskless, grain uniformity and size 2. Characters on which data should be recorded in the IVT (i) Grain yield (g/plot) (ii) Days to 50% flowering (iii) Days to 50% maturity (iv) Plant height (cm) (v) Threshability (in case of huskless barley) (vi) Straw strength (vii) 1,000-grain weight (g) (viii) Plant stand at germination and maturity (% visual score) (ix) Reactions to diseases, insects and nematodes Diseases: Rusts (yellow, brown, black); covered smut, loose smut, powdery mildew, Helminthosporium leaf stripe and leaf blight complex; seedling reaction against individual races of brown, black and yellow rusts Insects: Incidence of termites and aphids Nematodes: Cereal cyst nematode (CCN) (x) Quality features Physical parameters: Hulled/huskless, seed size, shape, uniformity and colour, hecto-litre weight, germinative energy, germination capacity, husk content, proportion of skinned/broken and thin grains Malting quality: Protein content in grain, malt and wort extract, Kolbach index, malt recovery, wort extract recovery, diastatic power, amylase activity, malt homogeneity and friability, wort viscosity (filtration rate). Quality parameters for feed barley: Grain protein, hecto-litre weight, hulled/ huskless, grain uniformity and size 3. Characters on which data should be recorded in the AVT-I and II Same as in the IVT point 2 (i -x) 4. Additional characters/variables on which data should be generated at the final stage of testing (AVT-II) Agronomy: Variety ×sowing date; variety ×fertilizer dose (under both irrigated and rainfed conditions) for both feed as well as malt barley. 23 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS 5. Plot size, spacing and number of replications Sl No. Zone States 1. Northern Hills Zone (NHZ) Western Himalyan region (except Jammu and Kathua districts), Himachal Pradesh (except Una district and Paonta valley), Uttarakhand (except tarai region) 2. North Western Plains Zone (NWPZ) Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan (except Kota and Udaipur divisions), western Uttar Pradesh (except Jhansi and Bundelkhand divisions), Jammu and Kathua districts of Jammu and Kashmir, Paonta Valley and Una district of Himachal Pradesh and tarai region of Uttarakhand 3. North Eastern Plains Zone (NEPZ) Eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Rewa district of Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal 4. Central Zone (CZ) Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Kota and Udaipur divisions of Rajasthan, and Jhansi and Bundelkhand divisions of Uttar Pradesh 5. Peninsular Zone (PZ) Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Goa (except hills) and Tamil Nadu (excluding Nilgiri and Palni hills) 6. Southern Hills Zone (SHZ) Nilgiri and Palni hills of Tamil Nadu and Kerala hills Trials Timely sown Late sown Plot size Reps Plot size Reps IVT 5.00m × 1.38m (Gross) 2 5.00m × 1.08m (Gross) 2 4.00m × 0.92m (Net) 4.00m × 0.72m (Net) AVT-I and II 5.00m × 2.76m (Gross) 4 5.