 Initiatives on Atma Nirbhar Bharat Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan or Self-reliant India campaign is the vision of the government for new India. It is aimed to make the country and its citizens independent and self-reliant in all senses. Government announced many bold reforms and enablers including administrative reforms to realize the targets. DARE/ICAR is orienting its research, education and extension activities to align with government recommendations under “Atmanirbhar Bharat Yojana” through: i) development of supply chain and management 35 DARE–ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2021-22 in all agriculture and allied products, ii) to facilitate Micro Food Enterprises, with focus on ‘Vocal for Local with Global Outreach’ iii) to facilitate private investments in the dairy processing and cattle feed industry and iv) to promote herbal farming and bee keeping. The GoI announced measures to provide economic relief package and impetus to diverse sectors were affected by the 2nd wave of COVID-19 pandemic for growth and employment. Accordingly, ICAR increased its research to focus on biofortification of crops besides high yield, climate resilience and resistance to biotic and abiotic stresses. In this direction contribution of DARE/ICAR in the campaign is mentioned below: yy Notified 15 biofortified varieties and 15 climate resilient varieties of rice, peas, millet, maize, soyabean, quinoa, buckwheat, winged bean, pigeon pea and sorghum for cultivation. yy More than 200 varieties tolerant to various stresses have been demonstrated in 446 Climate Resilient Villages (CRVs) at 151 vulnerable districts/clusters. yy Developed three Integrated Farming System (IFS) models and one Integrated Organic Farming System (IOFS) Model during the year taking the tally of prototype IFS models to 64 and IOFS models to 60 suitable for 26 States /UTs. These models have capability to (i) mitigate climate risk, (ii) recycle waste materials generated within the system, and (iii) meet food and nutritional security of farm families. yy Organised 1922 training programmes for 68136 migrated labourers in 6 states. yy Organized 100 entrepreneurship development trainings on Custom Hiring of Agricultural Machinery. It facilitated adoption process through industrial liaison in 17 states. yy Organized 74 specialized farmers’ trainings on processing and value addition in different production catchment, trained ~ 4,961 farmers and established 42 Agro processing centres for processing and value addition of agricultural commodities. yy To build the capacity on organic farming, developed 60 integrated farming systems and 51 organic farming practices for different agro-climatic conditions and resource endowments. yy To popularize, the organic farming practices, the cluster demonstrations of 50 ha each on organic farming systems were conducted by 411 KVKs. 36 DARE–ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2021-22 yy KVKs Organized 60,672 training programmes benefiting 16.