 The technologies including rice, arecanut, vegetable (bitter gourd, sweet potato, cowpea, okra, water melon), Nicobari fowl and humpsore control in cattle were assessed for their performance under different micro-farming situations in the village. Five farmers’ training programme on management of vegetable crops, poultry farming, humpsore disease, insect-pest and water-stress management of vegetable crops were conducted. A total of 116 farmers attended the training programme. A good ATIC nursery was developed at the Institute for raising the seedlings of recommended variety of vegetables and plantation crops. Database created on agricultural crops, livestock, poultry, fisheries is available on website of the Institute. ● One set of putative transgenic rohu successfully induced bred ● 15 species of Amphiprion harbouring in Andaman Islands ● Database created on crops, livestock, poultry and fisheries, and available on institute’s website ● Disease spread of humpsore successfully controlled ● Rhinoceros beetle managed in coconut SUCCESS STORY CONTROL OF HUMPSORE IN ANDAMAN AND NICOBAR ISLANDS (ii) Diethyl carbomezine citrate (20% solution) 20-25 ml under the skin around the wound with application of zinc oxide ointment. (iii) Ivermectin (1 ml/50 kg body weight) sub-cut 4 times after every 28 days. Cleanliness near the cattle sheds, application of insecticides for the control of flies, application of neem oil on the body of cattle, immediate treatment of wounds etc. are some preventive measures. About 55% of local cattle and 10% buffaloes carry the disease of humpsore caused by Stephanofilarial assamensis. Etiology of the disease, life-cycle of S. assamensis, seasonal variability in sore characteristics and development of suitable chemotherapy and control measures were extensively profiled. This parasite completes its life-cycle in bovines and in a fly (Musca conducens/ Musca atumnelis). The spread of the disease was successfully controlled. The infected animals were given following treatments: (i) Levamesol (1 ml/15-20 kg body weight) sub-cut and application of zinc oxide ointment on the wound for 10 days. Control of humpsore disease in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Left, at 0 day; right, at 15 days RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS 187 SUCCESS STORY MANAGEMENT OF RHINOCEROS BEETLE IN COCONUT The search for an eco-friendly, yet potential, method of management of rhinoceros beetle pest led to employ baculovirus, a potential bio-control agent. The virus causes disease in other adults and grubs (young stages) and ultimately kills the pest in a short period. The release of virus through artificially infected beetles was taken up in a few pockets in South Andaman during 1987. The spread of the SUCCESS STORY FISH CULTURE IN SOUTH ANDAMAN Guptapara, Manglutan and Manpur are the three backward villages which maintain their livelihood on fisheries, where a large population consists of settlers from Bangladesh, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Bihar.