  PEST AND DISEASE MANGEMENT of moth this year, ranging from 0.1 to 0.4/m 2. White ear formation was also meagre, ranging from 0.2 to 0.5. Reduction in population was due to drought situation. Yield of rice was 59.1 q/ha (both in parasi and carbofuran treatments) in comparison to 49.3 q/ha in untreated control. Though the insect did not contribute to significant yield loss due to its less or no infestation, there was increase in yield with parasi treatment in comparison to untreated control (Table 3). CONCLUSION Parasi leaf was found to be effective in controlling yellow stem-borer when it was used thrice in rice fields. period. But significant difference was achieved in the white ear formation, which ranged from 7.92 to 16.82%. There was high percentage of white ear in only one-time application at 30 DAT, than in repeated application at 30, 60 and 90 DAT. Though it was not significantly different from repeated treatment except in 75 kg/ha, it showed a trend of increasing efficacy. Again, application of parasi at panicle initiation stage showed efficacy at par with insecticide treatment. However, significantly less while ear formation was observed in comparison to control, except the treatment of 75 kg a.i./ha at 30 DAT. Yield was significantly higher in both the application of 150 kg/ha and in the repeated application of 100 kg/ha. Though the remaining treatments were not significantly high, they were higher than the yield obtained in control plot. A gradual increase in earthworm population was observed with the increase of parasi dose. It was highest in the repeated application of 150 kg/ha. Lowest population was observed in carbofuran treatment (Table 2). Data obtained from the experiment conducted on 10 farmers’ fields showed very less population Table 3. Effect of parasi on yellow stem borer incidence and grain yield of rice Treatments Moth/m 2 White ear/ Yield m2 (q/ha) Parasi (150 kg/ ha) 0.1 0.2 59.1 Carbofuran (1 kg a.i/ ha) 0.1 0.2 59.1 Untreated control 0.4 0.5 49.3 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code : 357 Title of the ITK : Control of insect-pest in lowland rice using parasi (Cleistanthus collinus) Description of the ITK : Approximately 0.4 to 0.5 kg fresh, tender branches of Cleistanthus collinus are planted erect/spread in the standing water after establishment of summer rice with the anticipation of the pest outbreak. This practice is being followed by a good number of farmers belonging to Kapgari village under Jhargram subdivision in Midnapur district of West Bengal. This practice has been in vogue over generations without any modification and is being followed in patches vulnerable to insect pest incidence. Gundhi bug is a major problem of this rice-growing area. Gundhi bug regularly infests the local scented rice variety (Basnabhog) and other early maturing varieties. The insect incidence occurs at milk stage of flowering. Yield loss is more due to the formation of chaffy husk. Name and address of the discloser : Dr G.