 • For the control of powdery mildew disease of rose, spraying the plants with Difencanozole (0.05%), Hexaconozole (0.05%), Pencanozole (0.05%) or Tridemorph (0.05%) significantly controlled the disease under Pune agro‐climatic conditions. • Three applications of monocrotophos and phosphomidon effectively controlled the aphid population in roses at Pantnagar centre. • Kavach (0.2 %) against Botrytis grey mould of rose is very promising. www.icar.org.in 4 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Horticulture 2. GLADIOLUS • In gladiolus, 637 accessions of varieties were maintained at Ludhiana, Yercaud, Srinagar, Hessaraghatta, Udaipur, Solan, Katrain, Hyderabad, Delhi, Kahikuchi, Lucknow, Ranchi, Pantnagar, Shillong and Kalimpong. • In gladiolus, Arka Kesar, 87‐22‐1, hybrid 84‐7‐11, 86‐3‐4, 84‐4‐8, Swarnima and Shagun have been found performing better. • Cut spikes of gladiolus treated with a solution consisting of sucrose (4%), aluminium suplhate (300 ppm) and sodium hypochloride (25 ppm), stored at 40C for 0 to 3 days and subjected to simulated transit for 48 hours either unwrapped or after wrapping with polyethylene or cellophane or polypropylene sleeves recorded the highest post‐harvest life at Ludhiana (cv. ‘Jacksonille Gold’), Pune (cv. Sancerre), Udaipur (cvs Sancerre, ‘Punjab Dawn’ and ‘White Prosperity’), Srinagar (cvs ‘White Prosperity’ and ‘Priscilla’), ‘Pantnagar (cvs Nova Lux’ and ‘American Beauty’), Solan (cvs ‘White Prosperity’ and ‘Trader’s Horn’) and Hyderabad (cvs. ‘Trader’s Horn’, ‘Yellow Frill’ and Arun’). • Al2(SO4)3 (300 ppm) + sucrose (4 %) + NaOCl (bleach solution, 25 ppm) for gladiolus were recommended as best solution. • Application of Captaf (0.03%) significantly controlled the corm rot disease of gladiolus cvs ‘Melody’ and ‘Sancerre’ at Ludhiana and similarly, under Pune conditions, Captan (0.03%) was found very effective in controlling the disease. • The bio‐agent Trichoderma harzianum used for the treatment of corms controlled corm rot disease effectively at Pune and Kahikuchi centres. • For the chemical control of Fusarium wilt disease of gladiolus, Benomyl (0.02%) at Pune, Carbendazim at Kahikuchi and Bangalore were found to be most effective fungicides. • Spraying the gladiolus plants with Kavach (Chorothalonil) @ (0.02%) recorded lowest disease incidence with maximum disease control. • Kavach (0.2 %) and Dithane M‐45 (0.2 %) are highly promising against Botrytis grey mould of gladiolus. 3. CARNATION • In carnation, 121 accessions were collected and maintained at Solan, Yercaud, Srinagar, Ludhiana, Katrain, Kalimpong and UAS Bangalore. • Pinching of carnation cv. ‘Impala’ growing under protected conditions with pinch and a half method and foliar feeding of nitrogen (150 ppm) at fortnight interval enhanced plant height, flower size, stem length, number of flowers per plant and vase life under Solan like conditions of Himachal Pradesh.