 Ravi, Subbiah (2000-2001) 74 Control of pests in chilli and brinjal by use of alum and castor shells Chilli and brinjal pests are white coloured and shaped like ants. With a life span of about 15 days, they are seen in abundance. Maliyabhai of Baroda has been using a traditional method of control for the last 19 years. He uses alum and empty castor (Ricinus communis) shells to control these pests. Around 60 kg empty castor shells and two kg alum are mixed together and spread on the land while ploughing before the sowing of the seeds (Baroda, Gujarat). Rathwa (1999) 75 Goats milk to cure leaf curl in vegetable and spice crops Certain vegetables like chilli (Capsicum annum), brinjal (Solanum melongena) and spices like black pepper (Piper nigrum) experience fruit and flower abscission and leaf curling. This disease occurs due to extreme cold and particularly so in the months of November and December. To control this phenomenon, fresh milk of goat is sprinkled on the plant using a pump sprayer. The results are visible in a week's time (Dahod, Gujarat). Babudiben (1999) 176 HORTICULTURAL CROPS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 76 Control of larvae in tuber crop Some farmers in Valsad district grow tuber crops such as elephant foot, pumpkin, turmeric etc. A larva attacks the crop at later stage of the crop when tuber develops. It enters into tuber and eats away the tuber resulting in reduction of yield. Farmers call the larva as 'laskari iyal' (Prodenia). It is one inch long with stripes of brownish green and black colour. The larva remains in the soil in day time and damages the crop during night hours. The larvae attack can damage the whole crop within few days. To control the larvae, some farmers use the residual liquid waste obtained in the preparation of country wine. Approximately one litre of this liquid is applied to the soil near the base of the plant. It can be applied either before or after sowing of the crop. No side effect of the waste is observed. Its application also helps in increasing the yield. The waste is also applied in seed beds of crops like brinjal, chilli, tomato, fenugreek, coriander and leafy vegetables before sowing. It makes the soil soft and is claimed to help the seedlings grow faster and become resistant to diseases (Valsad, Gujarat). Patel (1996b) 77 Tank silk for tomato Application of tank silk @ 25 tonnes/ha to irrigated tomato not only supplies micronutrients that build resistance to pests but also saves cost on plant protection (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 78 Burring the dead animals around the roots of fruit trees to increase growth Dead animals, like cats, dogs, etc. are burried around the roots of fruit trees. Fish bones are also burried. It is said that this promotes the growth of fruit trees (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh). Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 79 Management of banana crack by use of castor oi Occasionally, fruits of banana crack and fail to fill out.