 The Pavagadh solar power plant project, however, has raised certain concerns, particularly pertaining to its potential impact on local water Fig. 8. State-wise distribution of number of Solar farms within the proximity of surface water source. H. Supe et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e23125 11 (caption on next page) H. Supe et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e23125 12 scarcity and soil quality [75]. This idea of leasing instead of purchasing land can be seen as a symbiotic relationship, where both the solar companies and the landowners stand to gain. The companies gain access to the necessary land for their operations, while landowners can enjoy a steady income source without relinquishing their ownership rights. However, it is essential that these oper­ ations do not intensify local environmental challenges. In the case of the Pavagadh solar power plant, this balance is crucial to ensuring the project’s sustainability, as its potential effects on water scarcity and soil quality could significantly impact the local environment Fig. 9. Rasterized input environmental parameters: (a) Agricultural Crop Land, (b) PV Output Potential, (c) Power Grid, (d) Land Surface Tem­ perature, and (e) Water Availability. Fig. 10. Land Suitability Map for solar farm installation in the study area. Table 1 Distribution of currently located solar power plant according to LSM generated from this study. LSM Categories Percentage cover Unsuitable 36.13 Least Suitable 0.42 Slightly Suitable 9.84 Moderately Suitable 29.6 Suitable 13.5 Highly Suitable 5.09 Most Suitable 5.42 H. Supe et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e23125 13 and agricultural practices. Therefore, it’s crucial that such potential impacts are thoroughly investigated and mitigated to ensure sustainable development. LULC map (Fig. 11), covering power plant and its surrounding area up to 5 Km boundary extend, includes water body (reservoirs), and cultivated agricultural land. The Pearson Correlation Coefficient was used to assess the strength and direction of relationships between agricultural and hydrological variables and the SAW nexus; this enabled the identification of patterns and trends in LULC classes, along with their implications for solar energy, agriculture, and water management. This approach is an effective method for nexus evaluation [76]. Statistics were derived by tracking the area coverage of LULC classes annually from 2007 to 2022. There was a strong positive correlation between solar power and agriculture (r = 0.877), indicating that the solar power plant is beneficial for surrounding agricultural areas (Table 2). A moderate positive correlation between solar and water (r = 0.205). The result suggests that solar power generation is positively affected by the availability of water in the surrounding areas. This could be due to the fact that solar panels require water for cleaning and cooling, and the availability of water could improve the efficiency of the solar panels [77].