org/10.1016/S2095-3119(15) 61093-0. B. Baraj et al. 

World Development Sustainability 4 (2024) 100127 Available online 20 February 2024 2772-655X/© 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). A microeconometrics approach to gendered perspective of empowerment through agricultural decision-making in Rural Odisha, India Dukhabandhu Sahoo a, Dharmabrata Mohapatra b, Jayanti Behera a,* a School of Humanities, Social Sciences and Management, Indian Institute of Technology Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India b Department of Economics, Ravenshaw University, Odisha, India A R T I C L E I N F O JEL Code: J16 B54 Q15 Q12 C25 Keywords: Gender Empowerment Land ownership Agriculture Multinomial logit A B S T R A C T Discrimination against women in agricultural decision-making is a major threat to the empowerment of women in many developing countries where agriculture is not only the major source of livelihood, at times the only source of livelihood. It hampers their socio-economic status as well as the overall economic development of the country. The objective of this paper is to understand the gendered perspective of agricultural decision-making in one of the eastern states of India, i.e., Odisha by analysing the primary data collected through a structured schedule from 996 agrarian households. This paper, by using multinomial logit model, concludes that land ownership exclusively by females raises their decision-making power with respect to all agricultural activities in the household. Joint ownership of land by both men and women and the use of modern technology in farm activities also raise the agrarian decision-making power of the females. Further, the decision-making power of women is more among the socially marginalised and economically deprived categories. This calls for institutional arrangements to ensure land ownership by the female members and their economic empowerment by providing them better wages and livelihood. 1. Introduction One of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations is to achieve gender equality [47]. Access to resources and fallback options have been the major determinants of equality and Land has been the major resource for livelihood. Unfortunately, a meager 13% of the global landholders are women and the figure is further low in developing countries [32,46]. In India, it is 12.9% with considerable variations across states (e.g., in the Southern Indian states, it is 15.4% whereas in the Eastern states of India, it is 9.2%, [3]). Although, more than 42% of the farm labourers in India are women, they own less than 2% of this farmland ([29] 17th April 2018). The literature on intra-household decision-making asserts that it is the intra-household resource and wealth allocation that dictates the relative bargaining power.