 Some of them are more suited to humid tropical climate (e.g. black pepper) whereas some of the spice crops have a wider range of agro-climatic suitability (e.g. ginger and turmeric). The Northeastern region is in 6 Agro Climatic zones, harbouring one of the richest reservoirs of genetic variability and diversity of various kinds of fruits, vegetables, spices, ornamental plants and medicinal and aromatic plants. The major agro- climatic zone of the different states in NER is presented in Table 5. This feature of the region allows the primary producers to cultivate a wide variety of spices. Spice biodiversity: The NER is endowed with rich biodiversity in spice crops. Several unique spice crop relatives and Heirloom varieties have been reported from this region. Some of them find applications in traditional medicine and local cuisines. Though germplasm conservation has received considerable attention from research institutions, the entire spice germplasm wealth of NER is yet to be studied. This rich natural repository of spice germplasm is a source of latent potential for the spices sector in NER and yielded a unique spice flavour like Naga mircha (the hottest chilli in the world), Mizo chilli (with high pungency and unique flavour), Karbi Anglong ginger (low fibre and high oleoresin type) and Lakadong turmeric (high curcumin with specific profile) that are issued with GI tags. The possibility of new applications across pharmaceutical, nutraceutical and wellness industries along with appropriate branding and marketing strategies could enable commercial exploitation of several of these spices. Technology availability and access: The spice crop research in the country has a long history and over the years, the National Agricultural Research System has generated significant research technology outputs. These outputs in the form of improved varieties, more efficient inputs, plant protection strategies and agronomic practices have paved the way for enhancing spice productivity across the country. The existence of a significant yield gap between the NER and rest of the country is indicative of the poor technology penetration in the region. The ready availability of a cafeteria of proven technology can act as a catalyst for enhancing spice productivity in NER. The improved connectivity and advances in ICT realized in the region will also enable easy access to these existing technologies. Based on the existing levels of yield gap and the attainable yield level with existing technologies, an enhancement in productivity by 30-70% is attainable in the short run with simple technology dissemination strategies alone. Institutional support and enabling policy environment: The natural endowments and availability of technological solutions are necessary ingredients for a strong spices sector. But they can make effective changes only in the catalytic presence of institutional support and enabling policy environment.