 Therefore, the only government intervention will not be sufficient to ensure better production and market access. In fact, the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee has failed to fulfill the aspirations of the rural economy of Arunachal Pradesh. The respective wing of the Government needs to assume a greater role to free the cultivators from exploitations and make the economy more dynamic and vibrant. Following are the recommendations to overcome such shortcomings: Š Š Agricultural and farm production could be enhanced by developing suitable value chains supported by the technological inputs. Š Š Enhanced production should be linked to various organised markets, retailers, agro- processors and trades for better profits. Š Š Organic production potential of state should be nurtured with establishing linkages with specific markets through FPOs and private players. Š Š Creation of postharvest processing, value addition and storage (cold and dry) facilities are necessary requirements to minimize damage and wastage of farm produce to tap the potential profits. Š Š State should focus on market related infra-structure development. Š Š Private players and FPOs should be attracted for investment on farm produce processing and marketing through establishing fair trade contract and environment. Š Š Farmers should be connected to eNAM through the efforts of APMC. Besides, APMC should possess perfect knowledge of the existing demand and prices of the crops in the markets and for that it must have a sound market intelligence network. This network will communicate the information on the prices to the cultivators and also generate awareness among the cultivators to adopt more market-oriented cultivation. Š Š APMC should keep a strict vigil on the traders so that they cannot dupe the farmers of their dues. SUCCESS STORIES Dairy based entrepreneurship: A farmer from Tura, started a diary unit with 3 cows after taking loan from the bank. After initial success, he upgraded his dairy unit with 18 milking cows, 6 heifers, 10 calves and one bull and one-hectare fodder production farm. Additionally, he constructed a vermicomposting pit for preparation of vermicomposting from animal excreta and farmyard refusal. His annual net income is Rs. 8,51,250/- from his dairy unit. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 44 Backyard poultry (Vanaraja): A farmer of West Siang, Arunachal Pradesh, reared Vanaraja poultry under semi-scavenging system (birds allowed to scavenge and housed at night in low cost shed). Due to limited resources, he could not increase birds number beyond 50 but generated an income of Rs. 71,000/- after investing a sum of Rs. 20,000/- with B:C ratio of 2.5. Three progressive farmers of Lower Dibang Valley, Arunachal Pradesh, started backyard Vanaraja poultry. They could produce 6000 fertile eggs and distributed among 25 fellow farmers.