 Verma, MRDA, 4 Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3107 Treatment for constipation in calf by feeding whey 31(18 Treatment of constipation in cattle by lal jhimati seeds 3109 Cure of constipation in cattle with samudi leaves and root extract 31 10 Cure o( constipation in cattle with extract o\' sponge gourd leaves When cattle suffer from constipation, the animal stops feeding, salivation persists, and weakness and sometimes death are also observed. To treat constipation in calf, fresh whey is fed to the calf twice a day. This treatment is used in the tehsil Theog of district Shimla in Himachal Pradesh. Key words: whey, constipation When cattle of village Mantal of Ahmedabad (Gujarat) suffer from constipation, the cattle owners collect 350-400 g seeds of lal jhimati (Barleria cristata) plant and prepare a paste. About 300 ml fresh water is mixed with this paste and fed to animals orally by bamboo pipe. This dose may be repeated thrice a day. It may be followed up to 3-4 days for getting complete recovery. It is in vogue among farmers since time immemorial. Keywords: lal jhimati, constipation Cattle owners of village Mantal of Ahmedabad (Gujarat) give as supplement the extract of samudi (Prosopis cineraria) leaves and roots to get relief from constipation. About 200 g leaves and 250 g roots of samudi are mixed with 500 ml water after making the paste. It is filtered through cotton cloth. This dose is drenched by bamboo pipe for 2-3 times daily till complete recovery. It is an age-old practice. About 80-90% disease may be cured by this. Keywords: samudi, constipation, leaf, root Cattle owners of village Mantal, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) feed the extract of sponge gourd leaves to animals suffering from constipation. About People of Tehsil Theog of Himachal Pradesh Facilitator: Dr L R Verma, MRDA. 4 Summa Hill, Shimla (HP) 171 005 Dr Ranjay K Singh. Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University. Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 73! 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh. Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology). Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No.