 Data type Variables Data range Source Meteorological • Rainfall Maximum temperatureMinimum temperature 1980–2019 (daily) - National Data Center (NDC) - Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) Climate projection scenarios (d4PDF) • Rainfall Maximum temperatureMinimum temperature 2031–2050 (+2 K) - Data Integration and Analysis System Program (DIAS) - Japan Meteorological Business Support Center (JMBSC) • Rainfall Maximum temperatureMinimum temperature 2051–2100 (+4 K) Physiographic datasets Land use/land cover (LULC) Recently available - Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) - Distributed Active Archive Center (DAAC) DEM 30 m - Shuttle Radar Topography Mission (SRTM) Socio-economic datasets Crop production statistics Rice production Harvested areaCrop price Annual - International Crops Research Institute for Semi- Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) Seasonal - Open Government Data (OGD) Platform India Population Density (people/ km2) - Socioeconomic Data and Application Center (SEDAC) Drought damage statistics Occurrence Crop damage Economic lossAffected population Recently available - EM-DAT The International Disaster Database K.P. Bharambe et al. Climate Services 32 (2023) 100415 6 rainfall is received during the monsoon season (4 months) and is fol­ lowed by almost 8 months of the dry period. So, the hydrologic regime can be represented well by a 12-month scale over India. Moreover, the 12-month SPI and SPEI reflect the annual trend of the precipitation pattern, so they are well suited for the estimation of annual water con­ ditions and to investigate seasonal variations and their respective im­ pacts on crop production. Therefore, we calculated the values of SPI and SPEI using a 12-month timescale, considering the significance of drought impacts on the agriculture and water resource sectors. The calculated SPI and SPEI values were used to evaluate the climate change impact on drought occurrences. That is, monthly values of SPI and SPEI at 12-month timescales were used to identify intra-annual variability, and the corresponding impacts of extremely-to-severely dry episodes (drought events) on rice production were categorised based on the criteria provided in Table 2. We focused on the impacts to agriculture because the study area is an important agricultural area, and most res­ idents depend on agriculture for their socio-economic welfare. The indices were calculated using observed meteorological data and future climate projections. The SPI and SPEI monthly values represent the average of the last 12 months, whereas the annual value is the sum­ mation (or average) of each year. For example, the SPI and SPEI of January 1981 were calculated using the previous 12 months of climate data, from January 1980 to December 1980. A similar concept was applied for the analysis of drought indices using future climate Fig. 2. Schematics of research methodology for climate variability and drought risk assessment. K.P. Bharambe et al.