 SUMMARY The availability of grapes in the month of June can only be possible through semi-arid subtropical viticulture in North India. However, the uneven development of berry colour in these regions is a major constraint in commercial viticulture, resulting in poor market prices. Plant bioregulators significantly improve the grape berry colour in the semi-arid subtropics of India and Uneven ripening of grape berries in (a) Flame Seedless and (b) Beauty Seedless varieties (a) (b) helpful in grapes after its earlier success in commercial apple cultivation. Exogenous application of pro-hexadione calcium enhances the concentration of berry skin anthocyanins, better colour, and sensory characteristics. Uneven Ripening of Grapes Uneven ripening in coloured grape cultivars is one of the major constraints in commercial grape cultivation, especially under semi-arid subtropical conditions. Anthocyanins are the major colouring compounds attributing to the berry colour. Besides, several physiological, chemical, and environmental factors, including light, temperature, and amount of plant bioregulators/plant hormones influence the colour development in grape berries. Many red and black coloured grapevine cultivars have lower pigmentation than needed for optimum market appeal and requirements of the processing industry due to deviation from ideal light, temperature, soil moisture, and nutrition conditions. Among these, the temperature is the primary factor contributing to the non-uniform berry ripening under semi-arid subtropical North Indian conditions. March–April 2024 21 Comparison of grape bunches treated with plant bioregulators at the veraison stage (berry starts ripening stage); Flame Seedless (a, b, c) and Beauty Seedless (d, e, f) other parts of the world. A better compromise between grape berry colour and quality characteristics can be achieved by employing plant bioregulators in subtropical viticulture. (a) Control (d) Control (b) ABA 400 PPM (e) ABA 400 PPM (c) Ethylene 400 PPM (f) Ethylene 400 PPM Please renew your Indian Horticulture subscription on time For assistance contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com For further interaction, please write to: *Principal Scientist, Division of Fruits and Horticultural Technology, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012. *Corresponding author: vishaw.patel@icar.gov.in Indian Horticulture 22 Floral Phenology and Maturity Indices in Avocado Large numbers of Indian farmers are unaware of the flowering behaviour and stage of optimum maturity to harvest. Basically, under favourable conditions, each flower of avocado opens twice over a 24 hour period, firstly as functional female and later as functional male. This favours the cross pollination in avocado crop.