 Similarly Agricultural Skill Council of India has been integrating agricultural skills with the non-agricultural skill for making farmers better integrated in their businesses. Although the actual outcome of this initiative will be realized in the long term but initial results are encouraging. The initiatives of the union government of India for promoting non-farm employment will benefit potato farmers too and these farmers will also be in position to augment their family incomes along with other farmers in the country. Better post-harvest management Post-harvest management of agri-produce in general and potato in particular is a matter of serious concern in India as a very large proportion of our produce is wasted during post-harvest operations including the process of marketing. Under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sampada Yojana, special emphasis has been laid on value chain development and making the supply chains more efficient. Enabling forward and backward linkages in the agro processing clusters has been taken very seriously. A bundle of schemes have been implemented under PM Kisan Sampada Yojana, viz. mega food parks; integrated cold chain and value addition infrastructure; creation/expansion of food processing/preservation capacities (Unit Scheme); infrastructure for agro-processing clusters; creation of backward and forward linkages; food safety and quality assurance infrastructure; and human resources and institutions etc. Potato being one of the first choice of agri-processors is bound the get benefitted out of these initiatives and the benefits will be distributed among potato farmers too. Farmer producer organizations Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) have been promoted in a big way for ensuring scales of operations and better prices to the small farmers. The FPOs have very high emphasis on post-harvest management of agricultural produce. The government has decided to keep income of FPOs free from the income tax. NABARD has been supporting FPOs across the country promoting agro p r o c e s s i n g , g o v e r n m e n t procurement scheme, dairy, organic farming, seed production and marketing, fishery and other allied activities. The apex development bank is expected to achieve the milestone of promoting 5000 FPOs shortly for helping farmers to enhance their farm as well as non- farm income. The constitution of FPOs is highly beneficial for potato farmers and their income is expected to rise through this route. Financial liquidity through warehouse receipts Lack of monetary liquidity is one of the biggest constraints for majority of the farmers in India especially the potato farmers who have to sell their produce under distress in order to meet minimum level of financial obligations.