 Studies of climate change impacts on agriculture indicated that in the absence of adoption of adaptation measures, climate change projections are likely to reduce irrigated rice yields by 12%, wheat yield by 9% and rainy (kharif) season maize by 18% by 2050. Risk assessment of Indian agriculture to climate change A study on risk and vulnerability assessment of agriculture to climate change showed that out of 573 districts, 109 were very high risk prone and 201 were highly prone. This document is useful to the policy makers and research managers for prioritization of resources related to climate change action plans. By providing information on districts that have relatively high risk and more vulnerable to climate change this study can be handy in planning for adaptation, vulnerability and risk reduction. Further, ICAR collaborated with state governments and prepared Contingency Plans for 650 districts and provided technological solutions for major weather aberrations. Based on the advanced seasonal forecast before the commencement of annual rainy (kharif) season, contingency plan interface meetings were organized in the presence of senior district officials to ensure necessary policy interventions. Resilient crop management practices Screening of numerous germplasm including local genetic resources in several crops for different abiotic stresses (drought, heat, salinity, NUE, submergence tolerance etc.) helps in identifying donors for stress tolerance. Genes responsible for imparting resistance for climatic stresses in field crops have been identified and characterized through molecular approaches. Thousands of wild germplasm lines collected from several locations across the country have been screened to identify new sources which could be used in future breeding programs to develop new tolerant varieties to drought, flood and heat stress. To improve the food grain production, resilient varieties to climatic stresses have been developed and released for cultivation in different crops. Prominent drought tolerant varieties and resilient cropping systems adopted by farmers resulted in yield advantage to a greater extent. Resilient inter- cropping systems in place of sole crops, contributed in stabilizing productivity under variable climatic stresses in frequently drought affected regions in peninsular and central India. These climate resilient varieties have been introduced in drought, flood, heat wave affected districts, well adopted by farmers resulting in increased crop yields and monetary returns at different locations. On-farm evaluation of several climate resilient varieties Greenhouse facilities established under NICRA Indian Farming 19 June 2023 in different crops were demonstrated and integrated into developmental programs in climatically vulnerable districts. Managing natural resources The distribution and intensity of rainfall is increasing causing severe yield loss.