 Five different mutants were generated, and from this and two SDN1 type mutants free from introduced exogenous DNA were identified. As per DBT, standard operating procedures (SOPs) for regulatory review of genome edited plants under SDN-1 and SDN-2 categories, data were generated. These two mutants identified produced significantly higher grain yield in summer 2023 under transgenic field condition in irrigated environment. Two mutants of DST gene free from exogenous introduced DNA are being evaluated in AICRIP. High yielding CKX2 mutant lines of rice cultivar BPT 5204 (Samba Mahsuri) was developed earlier. Further molecular analysis led to the identification of one homozygous and transgene free edited line named as GeD7-26. Under transgenic network conditions, the GeD7-26 showed significant increase (>35%) in grain yield as compared to BPT 5204 (WT). The required molecular/physiological/morphological data has been generated. The mutants of CKX2 gene free from exogenous introduced DNA are being evaluated in AICRIP. Thus, the DST and CKX2 mutants are the first set of genome edited mutant lines that have been exempted from Rules 7-11 of Rules 1989 (noted in 259th RCGM on 31st May, 2023 and are evaluated under AICRIP. Grain yield of DST gene edited mutants (D366 bp and D2 bp) produce significantly higher grain yield than WT MTU 1010 under irrigated (top panel) and drought stress (bottom panel) conditions establishment traits suitable for conservation agriculture. Identification and cloning of putative genes involved in rancidity of pearl millet flour: To identify the putative genes and reconstruct the pathway linked with flour rancidity, de novo transcriptome sequencing of landraces (Damodhar Bajri and Chadhi Bajri), hybrid (Pusa 1201) and composite (PC-701) were carried out. After annotation and based on domain search analysis, five lipases and two lipoxygenases were identified and cloned. The expression analysis of TAG-lipase showed maximum relative fold expression during mealy-ripe ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 153 BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH stage of endosperm development in diverse genotypes of pearl millet. Similar pattern was observed in case of lipoxygenase (LOX and LOX-6) genes. A direct correlation was observed between the expression and activities of lipase and lipoxygenase in endosperm tissue of pearl millet. The open reading frame of putative TAG-Lipase gene cloned from Pusa 1201 was further mobilised in pMal c5X expression vector and was expressed by inducing with 0.8 mM IPTG. The E. coli cells were harvested and further recombinant lipase protein of ~14 kDa was purified using anion exchange column and ultra amicon column.