 Finally, the platform will allow alumni to explore various on-going research activities and collaborate with faculty and students. KVC ALUNET has the potential to strengthen the network of agri- practitioners, researchers and students through the positive power of digital technology. It can promote greater access to resources and increase equity especially with respect to student employment. The platform can be access on http://alumni.icar.gov.in. Accreditation portal for higher agriculture education institutions (HAEI): A national platform for accreditation of HAEIs was developed by ICAR-IASRI under NAHEP-component-2 to allow HAEIs apply for ICAR accreditation online. This portal will allow both government and private HAEIs to apply for accreditation online. This is an important development in agricultural education provisioning in the country. The portal will facilitate improvements in quality education by enabling universities and colleges to comply with specific norms and regulations, prescribed by ICAR. Moreover, the portal itself will ensure smoother transactions during the process of accreditation, in turn fostering time efficiency, transparency and greater accountability. Any HAEI wanting to become accredited by ICAR will have to first submit a Letter of Intent (LOI) along with Institutional Eligibility for Accreditation (IEA) and Statement of Compliance (SoC) to the National Agricultural Education Accreditation Board (NAEAB) Secretariat. Next, once these documents are accepted, the HAEI will be requested to submit a Self-Study Report (SSR) to the respective Regional Centre of NAEAB through the portal. Regional Centres will examine SSR to determine compliance with NAEAB guidelines. Upon receiving a satisfactory assessment by the Regional Centre, the HAEI will be accredited by ICAR. Online agricultural university ranking system: In line with the National Initiative on Ranking of Indian ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 136 SOCIAL SCIENCE Institutions, ranking of agricultural universities was initiated by ICAR with a larger objective to drive the universities towards improving quality standards and enhance their visibility to enable them for participation in global rankings. The ranking status allows the students to make informed choices for university placement. Further, the ranking process is expected to help the universities to self-assess themselves on the quality and enhance their abilities. It also tends to improve healthy competition among universities. So far, the ranking has been done for the last three years based on the information received from the universities in the prescribed Performa through hard copies. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic situation, it was decided to obtain the required information from the universities through online.