 24 ICT-Roadmap yy The IT products developed by following the standard procedure and guidelines specified by IOMC through different plan / project / scheme of ICAR institutes may be considered for its implementation in service mode as per the requirement of the Council. yy A centralized 24×7 Helpdesk service center will be created at ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi for all ICT services. This will work under Functional Group – 4 i.e., Implementation, Operational, Maintenance and Support. yy ICAR may provide separate additional funds for maintenance and management of IT based services to different institutes / centers for smooth functioning for local IT based solutions / services required in the institute / centers. 25 ICT-Roadmap ICT Targets / Milestones The next 10 years’ tentative targets / milestones of the proposed ICT unit in Phase-I (first two years), Phase-II (3 years after Phase-I) and Phase-III (5 years after Phase-II) are as follows: S. No. Activities Phase I (2 years) Phase II (3 years) Phase III (5 years) 1. Development of Data standards and ICT policies 2. Standardization of ICAR institutes website and digital systems 3. Development of Dashboards 4. Implementation of e-office in ICAR 5. Implementation of e-HRMS 6. Development of FMS 7. Agricultural Research Management System 8. Integration of existing systems (FVMS, PMS, etc.) in ICAR Portal 9. Cyber Security Management 10. Maintenance of ICT infrastructure and digital systems 11. Data Management and Data Analytics 12 Need based software and solution development 13. Developing and integrating Digital Information Network for Farmers 14. ICT action plan of Inter-Ministerial committee on doubling farmers income 15. Coordination of digital agricultural platforms 16. Precision Agriculture 7 26 ICT-Roadmap The proposed ICT Unit at ICAR Hqrs., requires minimal Permanent Scientific, Technical, Administrative / Financial and supporting manpower. The IT Unit created at ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi, will have Scientists above Pay Level 13 leading different proposed Functional Groups. These scientists will be supported by technical staff. This IT Unit will majorly require contractual staff with different level of expertise and experience, depending on IT / ICT technological needs from time to time. In the field of IT / ICT, technological changes are quite rapid and diversified, so it is not possible to recruit permanent staff in each of these fields. Therefore, hiring contractual staff having different expertise as per requirement will not only help the Council to develop digital solutions on latest technologies, but also provide flexibility and efficiency in the development of the different digital solution. The permanent staff will be re-deployed in this Unit from already existing respective cadre of the Council and there is no need for new recruitment. 8.1 Permanent Staff The following table provides details of permanent staff requirement in ICT Unit of ICAR, New Delhi and IT Unit of ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi. S.