 Till March 2022, around 1457 prospective entrepreneurs were trained and in the last three years about 1313 custom hiring centers have been established in different parts of Madhya Pradesh • Training programmes were conducted for promoting cultivation of horticultural and field crops under protected cultivation practices. It has benefitting more than 1700 farmers and helped in establishing 30 Polyhouses, 7 Shade Net/Walk in tunnels and 50 Drip Irrigation Mulching systems. About 300 trained farmers are earning profits of about Rs. 2 to 15 lakh per year from protected cultivation technologies depending on area and type of intervention. • Training on “Entrepreneurship Development on Soybean Processing” has been provided to 2800 prospective entrepreneurs at the institute. More than 240 soy based enterprises have been established throughout the country generating gross monetary benefit of more than Rs. 75 crore per annum. • Through its skill and knowledge development programmes, the institute organized 67 events for about 2100 different types of stakeholders, in which 36 programmes were exclusively for the NEH region and four training programmes conducted for 80 foreign participants during last two years. Knowledge dissemination among professional colleagues was done through 12 summer/winter schools and short courses. • A study was conducted to assess economic impact of five technologies developed by institute namely manual cono-weeder, paddy drum seeder, inclined plate planter, animal drawn seed- cum-fertilizer drill and CIAE twin wheel hoe which have been well adopted by the users and popularized in number of states. It was estimated that there was a monetary benefit of Rs. 7032 crore/annum from these technologies in 2018. With ongoing efforts for popularization and commercialization of developed farm equipment and machinery in different parts of the country, the potential of annual benefit is expected to be of the order of Rs 20,000 crore. 184 ICAR Institutes Profile 184 ICAR-Central Institute of Post-Harvest Engineering & Technology 1. Contact details i. Postal Address : ICAR-CIPHET, P.O. PAU Ludhiana (Punjab) –141004 ii. Name of the Director : Dr Nachiket Kotwaliwale iii. Email address: ciphetludhiana1989@gmail.com, director.ciphet@icar.gov.in Phone No.: 0161-2313101, 2. Mandate and activities • Research on post-harvest processing, preservation, storage and value addition of agricultural commodities. • Human resource and entrepreneurship development in post-harvest engineering and technology. Activities • Research on post-harvest processing, preservation, storage and value addition of agricultural commodities and entrepreneurship development in post-harvest engineering and technology. 3. Salient achievements • Developed 245 machinery / technologies/ process protocols.