 In 2019, Dr. T. Mohapatra, Secretary, DARE & Director General, ICAR participated in the G-20 MACS event in Japan during 25-26 April, organized by the Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Research Council Secretariat, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries of Japan. India’s successful demonstration of climate smart villages was presented, which attracted the attention of the member countries. Field visits provided opportunities to the member countries to learn ways and strategies for rapid regeneration of agriculture in tsunami affected areas in Japan. DARE/ICAR contributed to the technical aspects of joint statements as adopted by the G-20 nations. 14 Recently, in the 9th Meeting of G20 Agricultural Chief Scientists (MACS-G20) that was held at Al Khobar, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia during 17-19 February, 2020, Dr SK Ambast, from ICAR-National Institute of Biotic Stress Management, Raipur participated and suggested the need of regional cooperation among G20 nations in monitoring and forecasting transboundary insects/ pests movement using spatial techniques and information technology, which was later adopted in final draft communique of MACS. Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR Dr. T. Mohapatra in the G-20 MACS in Tokyo, Japan in 2019 Dr. S.K. Ambast, Jt. Director & Dean, ICAR-NIBSM, Raipur in G-20 MACS in Saudi Arabia in 2020 15 BRICS (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa) Collaboration India is an active partner in the BRICS. While we have done several programmes for the BRICS, the expert consultation on climate smart agriculture organized during 2012, was a great success, where the idea was conceived for establishing a BRICS Agriculture Centre. In 2013, South Africa organized a Seminar on Climate Smart Agriculture where a 4-member delegation led by Dr. A. Arunachalam from ICAR participated and shared the Indian experiences. In 2015, the expert committee of BRICS agreed on establishing a virtual Agricultural Research Platform (ARP), with its secretariat in New Delhi managed by DARE. Eventually, the MoU for Establishment of BRICS-ARP was signed on 16th of October, 2016. The ex-post-facto cabinet approval was given by Govt. of India on the 2nd August, 2017. The BRICS-ARP is envisaged to be the natural global platform for science-led agriculture-based sustainable development for addressing the issues of world hunger, under- nutrition, poverty and inequality, particularly between farmers’ and non-farmers’ income, and enhancing agricultural trade, bio-security and climate resilient agriculture promote sustainable agricultural development and poverty alleviation through strategic cooperation in agriculture to provide food security in the BRICS member countries. Furthering our relationships, India has been consistent in participating in the Senior Officers meeting and in the Agricultural Ministers Meeting of BRICS countries hosted by China during 2017 and by Brazil in 2019 strengthening our cooperation.