 Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2198 Use of fresh bitter gourd leaves to control pus formation and watery eye problem in cattle Volume 2, page 373 Bitter gourd Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Name in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Bengali: karela; Hindi: karela, kareli; Kannada: hagai, Malayalam: kaippa, kaippavalli; Marathi: karle; Tamil: Pakal, pavakka. Bitter gourd, carilla fruit Momordica charantia Linn. Fruit contains ascorbigen, a bound form of ascorbic acid. The fruits and leaves of the plant contain two alkaloids, one of them being momordicin. The roots are also bitter. The fruits are considered tonic, stomachic, carminative and cooling. They are used in rheumatism, gout and diseases of liver and spleen. The fruits of uncultivated forms are used as febrifuge. The fruits, leaves and roots have been used in India as folk remedy for diabetes mellitus. A monoecious climber found throughout India, often under cultivation, up to an altitude of 1,500 m stem slender, more or less pubescent; leaves sub-orbicular, 5-7 lobed, pubescent or sub-glabrous; flowers yellow, solitary; fruits 5.0-25.0 cm long, pendulous, fusiform, beaked, ribbed with numerous tubercles; seeds brownish, 13.0-16.0 mm long, compressed, embedded in red pulp. The plant is cultivated throughout India as a vegetable crop. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 241 Control of respiratory tract infection in poultry birds Volume 2, page 373 Tulsi Refer to ITK Code No. 1809 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages 1587 Remedy for flatulence in cattle Volume 2, page 375 Tori and ghia tori Tori: Bengali: jhinga, sataputi; Gujarati: ghisoda; Hindi: kali tori, jhinga tori; Kannada: hirekayi; Malayalam: pichenga; Marathi: shirola; Sanskrit: jhongaka, koshataki; Tamil: pirkankai; Telugu: birakaya. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES English names Botanical names Active ingredients Geographical indications Ghia tori: Bengali: dhundal; Gujarati: turia; Hindi: ghiya tori; Kannada: tuppahirekai; Malayalam: kattupeechal; Marathi: ghosali; Sanskrit: rajakoshataki, dirgha patolika; Tamil: mozhuku pirkankai; Telugu: guthibira. Tori: Ridged or ribbed gourd Ghia tori: Sponge gourd, vegetable sponge Tori: Luffa acutangula (Linn.) Roxb. Ghia tori: Luffa cylindrica (Linn.) M. J. Roem. Tori: Leaves of the plant are used as poultice in haemorrhoids and leprosy. The juice of fresh leaves is reported to be useful in granular conjuctivitis in children. Ripe seeds are bitter, they are reputed to possess emetic and purgative properties.