, 2022), the most used ML models for cattle identification were support vector machine (SVM), k-nearest neighbor (KNN), and artificial neural network (ANN). Based on evaluation metrics, SVM, KNN, ANN, and quadratic discriminant analysis (QDA) shows highest accuracy of more than 99% in cattle identification. The cattle identification with more than 99% accuracy was also achieved using DL models like ResNet, Inception, DenseNet, and the neural architecture search network (NasNet). 3.3. Big Data Analytics Big data analytics is the use of advanced analytical techniques against very large and diverse datasets containing structured, semi-structured, and unstructured data of varying sizes from terabytes to zettabytes from different sources. With the analysis of big data, analysts, researchers, and business users are enabled to make better and faster decisions by using previously unused data. For this purpose, advanced analytical techniques such as text analytics, machine learning, predictive analytics, data mining, statistics, and natural language processing can be used. Big data has prominent applications in agriculture. For this reason, it is also called big data-driven farming. Big data supports better quality and more informed decisions. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 37 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 38 Big Data is often defined in following terms-  Volume - the amount of data generated, stored and analysed. The amount of data stored determines the level of insight that can be obtained from that data.  Variety - type and nature of data. Historically data was structured and from a single source - in which case it would fit readily into 'columns' and 'rows'. Increasingly data is sourced from a variety of sources with many different formats  Velocity - the speed at which data is generated and processed. Where historically data could reasonably be expected to be uploaded via a daily 'batch' process now data is measured in thousands or even millions of transactions per minute.  Veracity- Addresses the quality and reliability of the data.  Value- Focuses on extracting meaningful insights and value from the data. The value of big data usually comes from insight discovery and pattern recognition. (Source: Microsoft Azure) Figure 28: Big Data Architecture 3.3.1. Big Data and Machine Learning for Hyperspectral Data Unlike destructive techniques, hyperspectral imaging combined with ML regression models provides a non-destructive, non-invasive, near-real-time, efficient, and robust method for the estimation of crop biophysical and biochemical traits. This technology proved to be promising for plant phenotyping that incorporates indoor (controlled environment) and outdoor (field- scale) phenotyping.