 For millennia, life on earth has been sustained by a thin layer of fertile soil on the earth's crust. Deforestation and other factors have degraded and eroded topsoil at alarming rates. Globally, 52 per cent of agricultural land is already degraded. We are only remaining with 80-100; harvests that meant 45-50 years of agriculture are left. If current rates of soil degradation continue, this would be the end of life. In the next 25 years there will be food shortage. In the last 100 years, 50 per cent of the top soil has been lost which is reducing the nutrient content of the food. What we are facing now is ‘soil extinction’. The top soil i.e. 12-15 inches of soil contains 80 per cent of life. Open soils leads to rapid degeneration. To avoid soil degradation, we should provide shade to soil with the help of soil covers. It reduces soil erosion and protects the fertile topsoil by reducing the amount of precious rainwater that runs off. Soil is not just soil but the legacy which we will have to pass on to the future generations. Therefore, we have to take the actions in such a way that is implementable. India has predominantly been an agricultural Yogi, mystic and visionary, Sadhguru is one of the most influential people of our times. An Enlightened Master, he has undertaken some enormous challenges – work that has been as sweeping as it has been varied. All his efforts, however, have always been towards just one goal: Raising Human Consciousness. 226 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series country and with the Green Revolution, India become self-reliant in food production. However, the sustainability of soil over time has deteriorated and the time has come when we have to think to "Save Soil". Sadhguru has started a "Save Soil" campaign at global scale. This is an effort to address this degeneration of soil, by inspiring at least 3.5 billion people, which is 60% of the world’s population, to support long-term government policies to revitalize soil. Presently, over 3.9 billion people have been reached out with this campaign. Sadhguru has covered 26 nations physically, besides many more through online mode during 100 days of journey. As an immediate outcome, 80 nations and 11 states of India have already joined this global movement of “Save Soil”. The desertification and soil degradation cannot be separated, and the global warming and climate change cannot be addressed without considering the soil. Almost everything comes from soil and the precious top soil need to be saved. Chemical fertilizers and agricultural inputs have promoted food production and made India surplus in food grains, but on the other hand, soil has degraded; as per FAO, 27,000 species of microbes are lost every year. People are giving overwhelming support to “Save Soil” movement. Under a ‘Grassroot Movement Cauvery calling’ at Cauvery basin, wherein 62 million trees have been planted.