 The 14 mainstream agro-climatic regions are Western Himalayan Region (WHR), Eastern Himalayan Region (EHR), Central Plateau and Hills Region (CPHR), Eastern Plateau and Hills Region (EPHR); Upper Gangetic Plains Region (UGPR), Western Dry Region (WDR), Middle Gangetic Plains Region (MGPR), Gujarat Plains and Hills Region (GPHR), East Coast Plains and Hills Region (ECPHR), Trans-Gangetic Plain Region (TGPR), Lower Gangetic Plain Region (LGPR), West Coast Plains and Ghats Region (WCPGR), Southern Plateau and Hills Region (SPHR), and Western Plateau and Hills Region (WPHR). This study aims to examine the agricultural sustainability of the 14 mainstream agro-climatic regions of India, covering three di- mensions: environment, society, and economy. Hence, robust and reproducible agricultural sustainability index is calculated at regional and district levels. Table 1 (continued) Component Indicator Deﬁnition Description Source Mean value Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), agricultural universities, and Kisan Vikas Kendras (KVKs) (%) Agriculture training is vital for utilizing agriculture resources efﬁciently and sustainably. Tractor ownership (þ) Percentage of farmers who have tractors (%) Higher access to machines such as tractors leads to higher agricultural sustainability. NSSO (2019) 1.79% Social security index Literacy rate (þ) Percentage of adults who have attended to school (%) Literacy rate has positive association with sustainability. ORGI (2011) 74.04% Infant mortality rate (IMR) () Number of deaths per 1000 children under 5 years old Rise in the IMR is negatively linked to the agricultural growth and sustainability. IIPS (2021) 54 Sex ratio (þ) Number of females to 1000 males Rise in the sex ratio has positive association with agricultural sustainability. ORGI (2011) 945 Knowledge sharing (þ) Percentage of farmers who have consulted with others (%) Knowledge sharing between farmers is expected to increase the degree of agricultural sustainability. NSSO (2021) 21.14% Joint family (þ) Percentage of farmers living in a joint family system (%) Farmers living in a joint family are more capable of dealing with any distress and positively contribute to agricultural sustainability. NSSO (2019) 28.43% Working population (þ) Percentage of working population aged 15–45 years old (%) Young farmers aged 15–45 years old with compact modern technology are more likely to be able to utilize agriculture resources efﬁciently and sustainably. NSSO (2020) 56.52% Receiving remittance (þ) Percentage of farmers who have received remittances from their family members living in urban area (%) Migrant workers send money to their relatives who ultimately invest in agriculture. NSSO (2019) 68.47% Membership of agricultural credit society (þ) Percentage of farmers who are members of agricultural credit society (%) Membership of agricultural credit society help farmers access to ﬁnancial resources. NSSO (2019) 12.