 gariepinus and its hybrids are sold as Clarias magur, the high-quality indigenous catfish species. In this context, a PCR-based identification kit was developed which can identify a hybrid in just two steps with genomic DNA as starting material. This is a specific kit designed for the identification of Clarias magur (magur), Clarias gariepinus (gariepinus) and their hybrid. Molecular characterization of M×1 of Labeo rohita: In rohu (Labeo rohita), m×1 full-length cDNA sequence consists of 2440 nucleotides (nt) encoding Jharkhand viruses grouped separately from H5N1 viruses of Bihar and Chhattisgarh (>5% divergence between the viruses) even though all viruses belonged to the HA clade 2.3.2.1a of H5N1 viruses. Emergence of Lumpy skin disease (LSD) in cattle in India: Several incidences of LSD suspected outbreaks in cattle were observed in five districts of Odisha during August 2019. The disease was confirmed as LSD by real-time PCR, virus isolation and nucleotide sequencing. Phylogenetic analyses based on partial Post-disaster mitigation Due to unprecedented heavy snowfall during the last winter since January to April 2019, an incidence of high yak mortality was reported from Muguthang valley and adjoining areas of North Sikkim. Around 500 yak mortalities were attributed to prolonged starvation due to sudden unprecedented continuous heavy snowfall, which made the area inaccessible for transportation of feed, fodder and other utility items. ICAR-NRC on Yak in collaboration with Animal Husbandry Department, Govt. of Sikkim conducted various programmes to benefit the affected farmers. The institute extended all possible support to the yak farmers of Sikkim by providing feed, fodder, and animal healthcare aids. Post disaster mitigation measures taken up by ICAR-NRC on Yak and Department of Animal Husbandry, Govt. of Sikkim in North Sikkim African swine fever in pigs for the first time in India: During January 2020, disease outbreaks with unusually high mortality in domestic pigs were observed in 2 districts of Arunachal Pradesh and 5 districts of Assam. The disease was confirmed as African swine fever by laboratory tests, viz. qPCR, virus isolation and nucleotide sequencing. Genetic analyses showed that the Indian ASFV isolates belong to genotype-2. This was the first occurrence of ASF in India and notified by OIE. 628 amino acids (aa) polypeptide of 71.289 kDa. Structurally, it belongs to the family of large GTPases with one DYNc domain (13-257aa) comprising dynamin family motifs (LPRGSGIVTR) and the tripartite GTP- binding motifs (GDQSSGKS, DLPG and TKPD) at the N-terminal and one GED domain (537–628aa) at C-terminus. Rohu M×1 is closely related to zebrafish M×1 and is widely expressed in gill, liver, kidney, spleen and blood. In response to rhabdovirus vaccinations, poly I : C stimulation and bacterial infections, m×1 gene expression in rohu were significantly induced in the majority of the tested organs/ tissues.