 The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences, The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences, Indian Farming, and Kheti, and quarterly semi-technical magazines/newsletters, viz. Indian Horticulture, Phal-Phool, Krishi Chayanika, ICAR Reporter, ICAR News and ARIS News. Special issues/accent numbers of periodicals were also brought out on the occasions/themes of World Food Day, International Agronomy Congress, ICAR Foundation Day, Floriculture and Environment. Of late, the DIPA has made inroads into e-publishing in a big way and has released DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 10 03-004-01.p65\10\(28.02.03\06.03.03) four CDs, viz. on-going research projects of ICAR institutes, e-book on Handbook of Horticulture, photographic material of the ICAR, and ICAR Vision 2020. The DIPA earned about Rs 4 million (up to January 2003) through sale of its publications and advertisements, and participated in various exhibitions and displayed its publications. The Agricultural Research Information Centre developed the National Agricultural Database (as a part of the ICAR-CABI Work Plan under NATP Programme), a database on 82 AICRPs, and upgraded Webpage of DIPA. About 14,000 readers visited the ICAR Library and consulted 20,000 publications. Publicity and Public Relations Unit issued materials of current importance to various newspapers, agricultural and current affairs magazines and electronic media; and achievements of the Council in agricultural research, extension and education were covered adequately at national and regional levels. The video films prepared on the Council’s activities and achievements and important issues of immediate concern to farmers were distributed to various ICAR institutes, KVKs and Extension Directorates of SAUs for wider dissemination of information. A NICNET-based Public Information and Facilitation Centre was established to bring greater transparency through better access to information. (MANGALA RAI) Secretary (DARE) & DG, ICAR Salient Achievements  Germplasm Exploration and Collection A total of 236 explorations have resulted in the collection of 15,243 accessions of different crops and their wild relatives. Important were 12 explorations undertaken in the Sardar Sarovar Catchment area; as a special mission to capture and rescue most of the existing plant genetic resources. In all, 27,847 samples of crops from 39 countries (including 79 samples of transgenic crops) and 59,745 of different international trials from the IRRI, Philippines; CIMMYT, Mexico, Nepal and Thailand and ICARDA, Syria, were introduced. A total of 3,961 samples were exported to 23 countries. Besides, 1,055 explorations were undertaken, and 64,520 accessions comprising crop landraces, local cultivars, trait-specific materials, crops’ wild relatives, less-known species and wild economic plants were collected. Inland supply of germplasm comprised 6,990 samples of diverse crops.