 Each of these philosophies provides a different lens through which to view the carbon footprint concept, shaping how individuals and societies might pri- oritize and address environmental impacts (Bumbiere et al., 2022). Carbon footprint assessment The individuals and organization are keen on estimat- ing their ‘Carbon Footprint’ which is a measurement of total GHG emissions from their operations or/ and activi- ties, can be estimated using the generic equation (Eq. 1) given below (Climate Change Secretariat, Sri Lanka, 2016): GHG Emission = [Activity data (A) × Emission factor (EF)] (1) Where, GHG = Emissions (e.g. amount of CO2 or CH4 etc.) A = Activity data (e.g. liters of fuel burnt, kg of cement manufactured) EF = Emission factor (e.g. kg CO2/liter of fuel burnt) The carbon footprint of various products can be esti- mated by summing the greenhouse gas emissions from several sources: (a) the decomposition of straw and roots, (b) the application of synthetic nitrogen fertilizers, (c) the production of nitrogen and phosphorus fertilizers, (d) the manufacture of herbicides and fungicides, and (e) differ- ent farm field operations, including pre-seeding tillage, sowing, pesticide application, harvesting, and grain stor- age on farms. Emissions related to labor and machinery depreciation are generally assumed to be consistent across different crop species or cropping systems and are thus typically excluded from comparative analyses unless oth- erwise noted. When a crop is harvested, some plant mate- rial remains on the soil surface to decompose. This left- over biomass, such as straw and roots, serves as a nitrogen source for nitrification and denitrification, contributing to both direct and indirect N2O emissions (Forster et al., 2007). Similarly, the application of synthetic nitrogen fer- tilizers in crop production generates N2O emissions. The nitrogen content in straw and roots from various crops can be estimated using specific crop nitrogen concentrations (Janzen et al., 2003) and crop yields (Gan et al., 2009). Total emissions from crop components is calculated using the IPCC methodology (IPCC, 2006; Rochette et al., 2008). Emissions from crop residue decomposition in- cluded direct emissions and those resulting from leaching. Emissions from synthetic nitrogen application encom- passed direct emissions, volatilization, and leaching. The direct emission factors for crop residue decomposition and synthetic nitrogen application were determined using the method outlined by Rochette et al. (2008), with the emis- sion factor (EF) expressed as follows (Eq. 2): Emission factor (EF) = [(0.022 P/PE) - 0.0048] (2) Where EF is the emission factor in kilograms of N2O- N per kilogram of nitrogen, and P/PE is the ratio of pre- cipitation to potential evapotranspiration during the grow- ing season. To calculate carbon equivalents per hectare (CE/ha) for inputs and outputs (Eq.3), the equivalent carbon emissions coefficients are utilized.