 Blood transfusion with blood groups in animals- their therapeutic significance. Blood matching methods. Oxygen therapy. Unit 14: Prevention and Control of Diseases General principles of control of diseases. Role of OIE in disease control. Internationally recongnised control methods of designated diseases. Prevention and control methods for national, area and herd based control programmes of diseases like TB, JD, rabies, brucellosis, HS, anthrax, BQ, mastitis, FMD, bluetongue, etc. 70 Unit 15: Common Diseases of Zoo, Laboratory Animals and Wildlife Clinical signs, diagnosis and treatment of diseases of wildlife and zoo animals: Shock, stress, diseases of cardiovascular system, capture myopathy, metabolic and nutritional diseases, toxicosis by chemicals and plants, tuberculosis, paratuberculosis, pasteurellosis, anthrax, rabies, FMD, RP, Kyasanur forest diseases (KFD), surra, helminthiasis. Clinical symptoms, diagnosis and treatment of diseases of laboratory animals: Tyzzer’s diseases, salmonellosis, pasteurellosis, strepto and staphylococcosis, psedudomoniasis, corynibacteriosis, mycoplasmosis (MRM), herpesvirus infection, pox diseases, coccidiosis, toxoplasmosis, giardiasis, helminthic infection, dermatophytosis, scabies, dermatitis, metabolic and nutritional deficiencies. Management related diseases of mice, rat, guinen pig, hamster and rabbit. 7.2 VETERINARY PHARMACOLOGY Unit 1: General Pharmacology Development and Scope, branches of pharmacology, Terminology, Sources and nature of drugs. Pharmacopoeia and drug compendia. Drug Schedules. Factor modifying drug activity. Concepts of pharmacogenetics, pharmaco-genomics Gene based therapy, overview of indigenous medicinal plants its active principles in therapeutic use. Pharmacodynamics: Drug structure activity relationship. Drug receptor interaction. Role of secondary messengers. Drug modulation via different types of channels. Characterisation of agonist, antagonists. Pharamacokinetics: Principles, Drug absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion. Factors modifying drug kinetics. Kinetic constants. Different models, determination of kinetic parameters and application in rational dosage regimen. Pharmacometrics: Drug discovery and development process. Multidimensional screening methods, bioassays. Determination of median doses – LD50, ED50, therapeutic indices. Types of dose response relationship. Unit 2: Drugs Acting on Central Nervous System Role of neurotransmitters in CNS. Sedatives, Hypnotics, General anaesthetics, Hypotheses and clinical stages of anaesthesia. Pre-and post-anesthetics, Molecular mechanism of action of inhalant and parenteral anesthetics. Anticonvulsants. Tranquilizers. Narcotic and non-narcotic analgesics and antipyretics. Drugs affecting behaviour. Drug dependence and addiction and abuses. CNS stimulants. Muscle relaxants. Local anaesthetics. Unit 3: Drugs Acting on Humoral and Autonomic Nervous Systems Neurohumoral transmission.