 By retaining moisture in the soil, fruit trees can continue to grow and develop even during dry periods, which can result in improved fruit production along with fruit quality. Additionally, moisture conservation techniques can help to reduce soil erosion, improve soil fertility and conserve water resources, which are all essential in rainfed areas where water is limited. Thus, by adopting these techniques farmers of the state can reap better returns from fruit cultivation even in water scare conditions. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: nehadhimanuhf@gmail.com Source: Vision 2050, CITH Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir Half moon system in almond Full moon system in almond Cup and saucer system in almond V shape ditches around olive trees Catch pits around olive trees Earth provides enough to satisfy every man's needs, but not every man's greed. —Mahatma Gandhi Indian Farming 15 May 2023 Reduction in wheat yields (2021–22) as compared to 2020–21 in 5 states Source: Hari Ram and S S Gosal, PAU Ludhiana Terminal heat stress in wheat and its mitigation options through agronomic interventions Gobinder Singh*, Amit Salaria, Harinder Singh and Rajan Bhatt* Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Kapurthala, Punjab 144 626 Since the beginning of century, the ambient temperature has increased and is predicted to rise further under prevailing climate change. Heat stress is the rigorous threat to wheat particularly during reproductive and grain filling stages which results into yield losses. At flowering stage, heat stress causes sterility of pollen and anther leading to underdeveloped embryo which in turn reduces grain number, while heat stress during grain filling stage leads to reduced grain filling rate and in turn reduces grain weight and overall yield. There are various strategies for yield improvement under high temperature stress during reproductive phases in wheat but agronomic measures like timely sowing of wheat, retaining rice residue in field, irrigation during stress period, providing enough nutrition to the plants and spraying osmoprotectants can all help to reduce this stress. Keywords: Heat stress, Osmoprotectants, Reproductive, Wheat W HEAT (Triticum aestivum L.) is an important crop of rabi (winter) season covering an area of 31.6 million hectares in Indian subcontinent. Being a winter cereal, it requires particular temperature condition for better emergence, growth and flowering, and is more vulnerable if exposed to high temperatures during reproductive stages. The temperature stress, that develops throughout the reproductive development phases, during the period from heading to maturity, is denoted as “terminal heat stress”. The early commencements of significantly higher temperature during wheat grain filling are quite common especially in Indo-Gangetic plains (IGP) leading reduction in yields. Last year, in the month of February, the government forecasted that wheat production could have been a record 111.