 If wilting of young leaves start followed by complete plant wilt (Fusarium spp) is seen, then remove affected plants from field and apply recommended dose of potash fertilizer to get rid of. December Spray of zinc sulphate @ 2g/litre water in mango and litchi plants for more female flower per panicle. Right time for planting of mid-season var. Kufri Surya, Kufri Pushkar Kufri Kanchan, Kufri Lalima at 50x20 cm apart in ridges. Apply 220-250 kg urea, 450-500 kg SSP and 200 kg MOP and 10 kg Sulphur for one ha area. Seed treatment with Carbendazim and Mancozeb @ 3g per kg seed for suppression of Rhizoctonia solani and Fusarium spp. This is time incidence of powdery mildew in pea and for protection spray Karathane@1.5ml/L of water or Sulfex @3 g/L of water. In winter when morning temperature drops followed by foggy weather, frost can affect potato. Apply light irrigation and smoke during evening hours; in extreme cases spray Metalaxyl 4.0 % + Mancozeb 64 % W/W @ 2 ml/L of water. Farmers having crops at 25-30 DAS are suggested to earthen up the crops utilizing available soil moisture. Perform first weeding and intercultural operation, irrigate every 10-15 days intervals. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 196 Deblossom the early emerged panicles for minimizing the floral mango malformation. For protection of young plants from frost, apply weekly irrigation to new plants and make arrangement for covering the young plants with the help of straw. January Potato crops at 25-30 DAS farmers are suggested to earthen up the crops utilizing available soil moisture. Irrigate every 10-15days interval. For control of potato leaf curl mulching with paddy straw could be done. High yielding varieties of potato like Kufri Ashoka, Kufri Pukhraj, Kufri Surya, Kufri Pushkar Kufri Kanchan, Kufri Lalima should be sown at 40-50 cm row to row and 15 cm plant to plant spacing on ridges. Bottle gourd- High yielding varieties are Bottle gourd (Pusa Navin, Arka Bahar, Swarn Sneha); Pumpkin (CO-1, 2, Arka Chandan, Arka Suryamukhi etc.); Bitter gourd (Swarna Yamini, Ranchi Local, Arka Harit, Pusa 2 Mausami) and Cucumber (Balam, Swarna Ageti, Pusa Sanyog, Japani Long Green). Seed rate- 4 to 4.5 kg/ha with spacing of 2-3 metre for Bottle gourd and Pumpkin and 1.25-1.5 metre for Bitter gourd and Cucumber. Irrigation should be given once every week and as per requirement. Farmers interested in summer vegetables should culture the seedlings in poly house or under straw mulching. Perform the halm cutting operation in 15 days prior to digging up, remove top leaves to allow the tubers to harden. Harvesting and curing of potato and grading of potato tubers is an important constraint in marketing process. Grade their potato into four categories <25 g, 25-50 g., 50-75 g, and >75 g.