 Improved AU revenue generation % 8.5 13.2 6. Accredited agricultural universities with revised norms and standards Number 55 71 7. Direct project beneficiaries Number - 4,98,101 8. Female beneficiaries % - 43 The hostel facilities for the students have been improved with support from the Council, attracts talented students. Placement cells helps students to obtain placement or advice on career. Support from the Council was also provided to AUs to take necessary initiatives so as to encourage holistic development of students through sports, self- defence, yoga, personality development talks by eminent people, through workshops, coaching and counselling for clearing competitive exams on all India basis, etc. Overall personality development and leadership programmes with the support from the Council guides students to become better persons and to grow as an individual. Support under Schedule Tribe Component (TSP) A total of twenty four (24) AUs were supported during the periad. Several activities were conducted by the Agricultural universities, viz. Trainings (Capacity Building/Skill Development, Awareness camps, Exposure visits, Front Line Demonstrations (FLDs), other demonstrations. Input distribution in form of seeds, field crops, high value crops, spices, root and tuber crops, nursery plants, mushroom spawns/bio-fertilizers packets. Animals, poultry chicks/duckling, fish spawns/fingerlings equipment’s, infrastructure/civil works/ponds were developed. Also, fertilizers (NPK)/secondary fertilizers, micronutrients, FYM/ vermicompost, plant protection chemicals, plant growth promoter, etc. were provided. Facilitation of animal feed and fodder, animal medicines doses, services/facilitation, animal health camps, testing samples of soil, plant, water, feed, fodder, and livestock, promotion of IFS, IOFS, natural farming, nutrigarden, kitchen garden and orchards was undertaken. Distribution of literature was also done for over 27,000 beneficiaries. Support under Scheduled Caste Sub Plan (SCSP) During the periad the support under SCSP component was provided to 23 AUs. The assistance provided under this component ensures flow of targeted benefits for Scheduled Castes in the identified clusters. Under this component total ₹1806.00 lakh was released to agricultural universities, located in 13 states during 2022-23. The support was provided for training and capacity building programme, viz. tutorials classes, personality development, and preparation of competitive exams, entrepreneurship development, awareness programmes and funds for providing printed books and access of e-books/ and other resources to the scheduled caste beneficiaries at college/university level. Support under North Eastern Hill Region (NEH) During this year, ICAR through its scheme of Agricultural Education Division also supported the AUs established in NEH Region for infrastructural development and also for new civil works with ₹2,601.00 lakh, inclueding three new girls hostels.