 Apart from the conventional subsidy-oriented support system, the PMMSY strives to create a conducive environment for private sector participation and promote the dynamic development of innovative entrepreneurial ventures and viable business models in the fisheries sector. Collaboration with DARE/ICAR in training and capacity building Most recently, the Department of Fisheries proposed to undertake a massive outreach program, in collaboration with ICAR, Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) for disseminating the PMMSY scheme not only among fishers, fish farmers, fish workers, fish venders and entrepreneurs but also among agriculture farmers, who undertake aquaculture activities as allied activities for additional income generation. The proposed program which are not functioning up to their rated capacity due to short-supply of raw materials. It has been estimated that, only about 30% of the annual domestic agar requirement and 40% of alginates has been met by indigenous production. Rest of the domestic demand is still met by imports and present situation demands more self- reliance in the sector to align towards the slogan of Aatma Nirbhar Bharat in terms of seaweed-based industry and value chain. It is therefore under PMMSY, envisaged to revolutionize the seaweed farming and value chain in the country with an increase in production manifold from the current levels to about 11.2 Lakh tonnes of wet weight in the coming 5 years. Under PMMSY, a total investment of ` 640 crores is exclusively earmarked for the development of seaweed cultivation and value chain in the country. Moreover, being an agricultural economy, products such as plant growth stimulant (liquid fertilizer) developed from fresh seaweed biomass have huge domestic demand in India. Biofertilizer and growth stimulant business currently represent 1,500-1,700 crore market in the country, where the lion’s share of sea weed extracts required for the industry are imported annually. Hence, the targeted hike in the seaweed production under the PMMSY will result in a significant reduction in the imports in the biofertilizer and growth stimulant industry in India. Seaweed biomass is gaining prominence in food and nutraceuticals industry, wherein new emerging application in several bio- based and high value edible commodity products especially functional food is being developed. The ICAR – Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) has successfully developed a series of Nutraceutical products indigenously for use against various life style disorders. Scaling up of production and industrialization of such products offer large scope in the coming years. Deep sea fisheries Given the low level of harnessing of deep-sea fisheries resources in EEZ and High seas, by our indigenous Indian Farming November 2020 57 I NDIA has expanded its fish production during the last six decades with an 18-fold increase in production.