 The work in this project also evolved new partnerships between NARES institutes and technology seeking companies through technology validation, technology transfer and enterprise development processes. The impact of units under the BPD project can also be gauged through concerted efforts of nurturing and skill development of entrepreneurs along with commercialisation of technologies. Ninety one incubates graduated from these centres during the project period. The project also helped the entrepreneurs to commercialise their business ideas using research facilities of the institutes and provided pilot level production facilities for the prospective entrepreneurs. The initial success achieved in the ITMU scheme for initiation of technology transfer process and later through the achievements through the BPD units established under the NAIP laid the basis for providing a continuum in the NARES for technology commercialization, incubation and entrepreneurship development. The experience in these two projects led to the new thinking across policy makers and NARS leading to development of National Agricultural Innovation Fund. Under the component I it is clear that IPTM scheme is now into the next phase to provide a continuum of early work. Under the component II of the NAIF, a target of 50 agribusiness incubators has been envisaged. Till date, 24 ABIs have been granted. These incubators have together helping in more than 150 agri-entrepreneurs from different backgrounds including some companies. With the recent announcement of start-up India policy and startup definition, about 100 entrepreneurs who can be defined as agri-startups supported by ICAR Agri-business incubation centers. This compendium AgRIM (Agri-startups: Reflections ICAR technologies in Market) is the overview of the efforts of these 24 Agri-Business Incubators of ICAR to bring these startups to the market for enhancing the efficiency in the value chain of different agricultural sectors. This compendium is expected to create more network across the canvas of emerging agri-startups. Consolidation of efforts across diverse centres encourage cross learning within each sector. 2 CPRS, Jalandhar CIPHET, Ludhiana NDRI, Karnal IARI, New Delhi IVRI, Izzatnagar IIVR, Varanasi CIAE, Bhopal CIRCOT, Mumbai CIFE, Mumbai NRRI, Cuttack NAARM, Hyderabad IIMR, Hyderabad IIOR, Hyderabad NRCM,Hyderabad CIFA, Bhubaneshwar NIRJAFT, Kolkata ICAR RC NEH, Umiam NRCP, Guwahati IIHR, Bengaluru CIBA, Chennai CPCRI, Kasargod IISR, Calicut CIFT, Kochi ICAR Agri-Business Incubators 3 4 STARTUPS 5  Production Name of Institute: CIPHET, Ludhiana No. of technology licensed: Two Licensing term: Non exclusive Industry: Agril Engineering Machines/ Tools Technology description: This is fully automatic machine assisted with pneumatic power and electronically controlled with efficiency of the cutting and scooping mechanism: 94% pulp recovery, 6% pulp wastage along with peels. The capacity of the machine is 120 kg/h 2012 No.