 This year, the event was organized at CCSHAU, Hisar, Haryana from 25th to 29th March, 2017. Over 2,500 participants from nearly 60 teams of agricultural, veterinary and animal science universities and educational institutions of Indian Council of Agricultural Research from across the country participated in the event. For the first time, eight students of the University participated in the athletics and badminton events of this tournament. 10.12 World Environment Day – Connecting People to Nature World Environment Day – which is observed on 5th -June every year across the globe – is the largest annual event for positive environmental action. This year’s theme at RAJUVAS, Bikaner, Rajasthan. AGRI UNIFEST offers opportunities to the students of Agricultural Universities to show their talent in music, dance, literary events like quiz, elocution, debate, extempore, theatre and fine arts. A group of 22 students of RLBCAU, Jhansi participated in different events like mime, skit, group song, debate, rangoli, extempore etc. for the first time. 10.11 All India Inter Agricultural University Games and Sports The Games and sports inculcate discipline and hard work in individuals and help in developing a coherent society. In order to showcase the latent potential of the students of Agricultural Universities in the field of games and sports, All-India Inter Agricultural A performance by participating students from AUs during Agri- Unifest. 29 Annual Report 2016-17 ‘Connecting People to Nature’, takes forward the call to protect the Earth that all living being share and invites to think about how the living creatures are part of nature and intimately depend on it. The University students and faculty organized the day with a plantation drive with focus on Kachnar (Bauhinia variegata) plants. The students pledged to adopt atleast one plant for its regular care. A lecture was delivered by Dr S. K. Sharma, Consultant (Horticulture & Forestry) highlighting the importance of tree plantation in the context of growing environmental concerns such as the depletion of the ozone layer, emission of toxic chemicals, desertification and global warming and climate change. 11. Faculty Participation in Confe- rences/ Trainings/Meetings The University faculty participated in various conferences/trainings and important meetings organized at international/national level to present papers/ reports and contribute to various academic/research issues. Plantation drive – connecting people to nature. S. No. Name of the Conference Date and Venue Name and Designation 1. 21st Annual Group Meet of ICAR- AICRP on Chickpea August 29-31,2016 ARS, Kalaburagi. Dr. Devi Singh, Consultant Dr. Meenakshi Arya, Scientist (Plant Pathology) Dr. Anshuman Singh, Scientist (Genetics & Plant Breeding) 2. International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Supportive Technologies. September 2-3, 2016. BIET, Jhansi. Dr. Arvind Kumar, Vice-chancellor 3.