 The cost of production of raising one vegetable seedling in pro-tray is about `0.5–2.0. Transplanting of vegetable seedlings Manual transplanting: The vegetable seedlings are transplanted manually with the help of hand tools like spade, shovel or khurpi Indian Farming 32 February 2023 in field. The traditional practice is to hold a bunch of seedlings/ seedling tray in one hand and separate seedlings by the other hand and press down the roots in the soil with bare hand. However, some hand held tools have been developed by local manufacturers to ease the transplanting operation and to reduce the drudgery involved in manual transplanting method. Few low cost hand held developed vegetable transplanters have field capacity of about 0.02 ha/h. Mechanical vegetable transplanting: Some mechanical vegetable transplanters have been developed in order to reduce drudgery and labour requirement. These transplanters are semi- automatic type consisting of either pocket-type, cup or bucket-type metering mechanism that uses bare root or plug type seedlings for transplanting. A mechanical transplanter should perform the following three functions: i) Open the soil in form of narrow furrow; ii) Place seedlings vertically upright in it and; iii) Close and compact soil around it without damaging it. A tractor operated semi-automatic transplanter uses a cone-type or pocket-type metering mechanism that has a rotating plate which opens the cone to drop the seedling by gravity in the furrow made by furrow opener shoe. The soil is compacted around the plants with the help of two inclined press wheels. Whereas in automatic transplanter, seedlings are fed to the delivery unit by an automatic mechanism. Recent trends in the development of automatic transplanters are taking up pace as they can increase the transplanting speed, thereby utilizing the tractor power effectively and reducing the cost of cultivation. The most advanced type of vegetable transplanter uses automatic pick-up mechanism and is mostly controlled with Traditional practices of transplanting vegetable seedlings Hand tools for transplanting vegetable seedlings Source: CIAE Newsletter, 2017 Table 1. Vegetable transplanters with metering mechanism Type of system Metering mechanism Vegetable seedlings Semi-automatic Pocket-type Bare root vegetable seedlings, viz. tomato, brinjal, cauliflower, tomato, chilly, onion, etc Rotary cup-type, Conveyor- type, Linked chain-type Plug type seedling, viz. chilli, tomato, brinjal, etc Automatic Linked chain-type Gripper-type or Pincette- type Paper pot seedling, viz. chilli, tomato and brinjal Plug-type seedling, viz. chilli, tomato, brinjal, etc Tractor drawn semi-automatic vegetable transplanter for vegetable seedlings devloped at Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana (left) and Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology, Udaipur (right) Indian Farming 33 February 2023 electronics and gear train.