 In this treatment, 250 g unripe fruits of gular Shri Heera Lai, S/o Shri Kamla ji Kumhar, Damana (Umra Khapra), Jhadol, dist. Udaipur (Rajasthan) and Shri Khem Raj, S/o Shri Modil Lai ji Darji, Jhadol, dist. Udaipur (Rajasthan) Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Shri Nathya Nath, S/o Shri Bhora Nath, Khohara, Todabhim, Karauli (Rajasthan) 321 611 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3323 Induction of heat in animals with lentil and mustard oilcake 3324 Bringing heat in cows with green leaves of lalphulwali sankhawali 3325 Bringing cows and buffaloes in heat by feeding a mixture of hing, pipad and vand (Ficus asperima or F. glomerata) is boiled in 1 litre water for 4-5 min. After cooling it is fed to the animal. By this treatment, placenta is expelled within 10-15 hr. This treatment is repeated if placenta is not expelled. In another treatment 500 g green gular leaves are boiled in 1 litre water. After cooling, it is filtered and given to the animal. After this treatment the placenta is expelled within 10-15 hr. Keywords: expulsion, placenta, gular fruits, leaves This ITK is used to induce heat in animals by the people of a Maheshpur (Shivsingh) village of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. One kg lentil (Lense esculentus) dal and 300-400 g mustard oil-cake are mixed properly. It is given twice daily to the animal, which induces heat in the animal. Keywords: induction, heat, lentil, mustard, oil- cake When she animals do not come to heat because of any internal or hormonal problem, the cattle owners of village Mantal of Ahmedabad (Gujarat) collect 300 g green leaves and stems of lalphulwali sankhawali (Evolvulus alsinoides). These leaves are crushed by adding 250 ml water. This solution is filtered and given orally to the suffering animal with the help of a bamboo piece. This practice is followed at a gap of 1 day up to 10-12 days. Keywords: lalphulwali sankhawali, hormone, heat period When cows or buffaloes do not come in heat naturally, the cattle owners of district Alwar in Rajasthan prepare a mixture of 50 g hing (asafoetida) + Shri Rajendra, S/o Shri Babu Ram, village Maheshpur (Shivsingh), Bhairpura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No.