 Enhancing millets’ production and consumption in India depends on the consumers. The realization of the fact that Millets offer a solution to lifestyle disorders would encourage more consumption. Further, if producers realize that millets require less inputs and is an economically viable option, they will go for preferential cultivation. The Centre and many States have decided to promote millets in a major policy shift. In India, the coarse cereals, such as millets and sorghum, can ensure better nutritional security, and reduce resource demand. The greenhouse gas emissions can be controlled, and climate resilience can be enhanced without reducing calorie production or requiring more land. ICAR has taken significant strides in this direction. 3.4. Introduction of Appropriate Technology Gandhiji always emphasized using appropriate technologies in meeting basic needs and achieving equity. The phased manner development activities should be taken up so that the beneficial aspects reach the society sustainably, promoting positive development at the same time. His concepts of Swadeshi and Swaraj implied the use of appropriate technology and development approach to meet basic needs, respectively (Bakker 1990). He advocated the self- help approach (Swadeshi) as a strategy for rural development. ICAR has developed many innovative, cost-effective, and eco-friendly farm technologies and implements (e.g., coconut de-husker, power tiller, etc.), which has reduced the drudgery of the farmers, reduced the gender divide, and has contributed to enhancing farm productivity. Various machines and suitable methodologies were developed by ICAR to mechanize different labour- intensive farm operations in plains and hilly regions. A self-propelled site-specific fertilizer applicator was developed for top dressing in wide spaced field crops. The Government of India has provided support for research and human resources development in support of agricultural mechanization. The agricultural engineering programs conducted in many state agricultural universities have facilitated agricultural mechanization in India. 139 Bakker (1990) provides a comprehensive contemporary account on the Gandhian “basic needs” approach in developing particularly “appropriate technologies” for food production systems. He concluded that new technologies are developed and more often used regardless of their appropriateness to the context and which he attributed partly to the disciplinary specialization which blurs the complexity of food systems. Gandhiji had a conviction that research should be sensitive to the local needs and should not lead to introduction of technological innovations forcefully on such systems which are not adequately prepared for willingly adopt them (Bakker 1990). ICAR has internalized this principle and has structural mechanism to sensitize the community regarding new innovations and also to evaluate them in the farmers’ fields to build their confidence.