 However, one concern still remains; product lines that receive GI registration are systematically different in other characteristics, which could bias the estimates as shown in Equation (1). For example, one may worry that particular varieties of paddy and horticultural products are more likely to get a GI tag, as they are already exported in high quanti- ties. To address this endogeneity concern, we restrict our analysis to those HS6 product lines, which receive at least one GI during our sample. Thus, in any given year, our con- trol group comprises state products that would receive GI in a later year, and other non-GI state products in product lines that would receive at least one GI during our sample period. For example, if Fazli Mango (HS Code 080450 registered in West Bengal) received a GI tag in 2008, our control group would have all the state products (at HS6) with HS Code 080450. Table 8 reports results from estimating Equation (1) and its variants. In column 1, we estimate the baseline speciﬁca- tion in Equation (1); the coefﬁcient is positive and statisti- cally signiﬁcant, suggesting that GIs do lead to an increase in state-product exports. It can also be the case that application for a GI may also contribute to the increase in the exports of the product. This is possible because the registrar of the GIs in India pub- lishes the event of the applications made for the GIs on their website. Even the local and national newspapers report about the applications for GIs. Hence, the application for a GI tag can itself impact exports. Another primary concern is that our estimates may be biased due to differences in the quality of state-level institutions. Suppose states that have organised agricultural trade bodies, and other institutions are more likely to apply for GI and spend more on export promotion activities. In that case, we may be attributing the effect of these institutions on exports to GI. To provide sug- gestive evidence against this, we show that the timing of receiving GI is indeed essential, besides the application for GI. In column 2 of Table 8, we include an indicator variable that equals 1 for all years, starting from the year of applica- tion for GI till the year preceding the one in which, the state product receives GI registration. The coefﬁcient on this vari- able is positive and signiﬁcant at a 10% level. The coefﬁcient on GI remains positive, increases in magnitude, and is statis- tically signiﬁcant. This result suggests that both the applica- tion and the registration of GIs have a positive and signiﬁcant impact on agricultural exports. Following Martin, Nataraj, and Harrison (2017), in column 3 of Table 8, we include state-product-speciﬁc event-time trends to control for pre-existing linear trends in exports in years before the GI registration. The event-time variable is deﬁned as the difference between the current year and the year of GI registration.