 • Finger millet: Adaptable to acidic soils and thrives in hilly, eroded lands. Tolerates poor soil fertility and drought conditions and performs well in rainfed and upland areas. • Foxtail millet: Grows in a wide range of soil types, including infertile and marginal soils. Fast-growing, making it suitable for short growing seasons and degraded lands. • Kodo millet: Tolerant to saline and alkaline soils. Well-suited for drought-prone regions with low-input agricultural systems. • Proso millet: Performs well in saline soils and dry, sandy areas. Short growing season makes it suitable for marginal lands with limited water availability. • Barnyard millet: Grows in poor, waterlogged soils and withstands drought conditions. It can be cultivated in areas with heavy soil erosion and poor drainage. Some millet-based food products Indian Farming 35 January 2025 Risk mitigation through millets in rainfed agriculture Growing millets in rainfed conditions is a strategic approach for mitigating risks like drought, soil fertility and uneven weather patterns which were mostly faced by farmers. Following are the benefits of growing millets, particularly in rainfed agriculture. Drought resilience: Millets are well adapted to the dry environment conditions and wide range of soil types. Following are the major adaptations, which makes them resistant to drought. • Deeper root systems: Millets develop extensive root systems that can reach the deeper layers of the soil to absorb moisture even if there is a condition of low rainfall and enable them to survive during the prolonged dry spells. • Water-use efficiency (WUE): Higher WUE indicates higher biomass with less quantity of water. Millets need around 350-500 mm of water, which is less than the other fine grains, as their physiological adaptations allow them to absorb more moisture during their critical growth periods. • Drought escape mechanism: Most of the millets have shorter life cycle which is 80-100 days after sowing. So, they complete their growth period before water becomes critically low. The leaves of the millets are narrow, with dense cell wall, possess natural waxy coating to reduce the transpiration and helping them to retain water during the dry spells. When the condition in the soil is not suited for the germination, millets show dormancy which allow them to remain in the soil until the soil conditions improve. • Physiological adaptations: Millets have C4 photosynthetic pathway which is highly beneficial especially in case of dry area. In this pathway, there is negligible photorespiration (reduced up to 80%) and suppression in oxygenation of ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate (RuBP) which, increases the concentration of CO2 around the ribulose-1,5- bisphosphate carboxylase/ oxygenase (RuBisCO) present in bundle sheath and increases its activity. In C4 plants, under warm temperatures and elevated CO2 levels, the performance of RuBisCO improves with plants showing better photosynthetic activity.