 A moderate sized deciduous tree, common throughout India, Burma and Sri Lanka, either wild or cultivated. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 334 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 102 Crescentia cujete Calabash tree H-Bilayati bel T- Tiruvattukkay Fruit pulp is diuretic, aperient, cooling and fabrifuge. Decoction of the bark is used for cleaning wounds and a poultice prepared from pounded leaves is applied for headache. The fruit pulp contains crescentic, tartaric, citric and tannic acids. The sap from the tree is stated to contain dye which was once used for dyeing silk black. This species has been introduced into India and is commonly found in gardens. The fruit is ovoid, rounded up to 12 feet in diameter with a hard, smooth,wood shell, enclosing and acidic pulp and flattened seed. 103 Croton tiglium Croton purging H- Jamal- gota M- Jamal- gota Tel-Nepala Kan-Nepala T-Nevalam Mal- Nervalam The oil content is 30–45% of the whole seed. Both the seed and oil possess dangerous toxic and purgative properties vesicating action. Both croton oil and croton resins loose their specific physological action upon hydro- generations. Croton oil is most drastic of all purgatives. Even in minute doses it causes violent purging and vomiting. The glycosides present in the seed kernel to the extent of 1–4% and has been as a deriboside of two-hydroxy-six- amino-purine. A smalll evergreen tree 15–20 feet high, distributed in Bengal, Asam, south India, Burma and Sri Lanka in naturalized or cultivated state. The fruits are oblong, obtusely 3 lobed, 17–25mm long, almost glabrous and 3-seeded. 104 Cucumis sativus Cucumber H- Khira B- Khira M- Khira Tel-Dosakaya T-Vellarikkai The seeds are reported to be cooling tonic and diuretic. The seed kernels are edible and are used in confectionery. A trailing or climbing annual, bearing elongated, thick, cylindrical fruits of varying sizes and forms. The plants are probably indigenous to north-India. It is widely cultivated in India. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 335 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 105 Cuminum cyminum Cumin H- Zira or Zeera Man-Jiregire T-Siragam Tel-Jilakara Kan-Jeerige M-Jorekam P-Zira-sufed Cumin seed have an aromatic odour and a spicy, some what bitter taste. Cumin seed is stimulative and carminative. They are stomachic and useful in diarrhoea and dyspepsia. The oil (cumaldehyde) is used in perfumery and for flavouring liquors and cordials. It is also used as a carminiative. The residue left after the volatile oil extraction contain 17.2% protein and 30% fat. It can be used as a cattle feed.