 Both NO assimilation and N fixation of legumes are strongly dependent on the plant cultivar, bacterial strain, ontogeny, and environmental factors. Food and fodder for human and animal health The immature pods of French beans are marketed fresh, frozen or canned, whole, cut or French-cut. The mature ripe beans variously called navy beans, white beans, northern beans or pea beans, are widely consumed. In temperate regions, the green immature pods are cooked and eaten as a vegetable. In lower latitudes, the dry beans furnish a large portion of the protein as needed by low and middle class families. Additionally protein Rajmah is rich in fat, calcium, iron, phosphorus, vitamins (A, B, D, K), antioxidant, carotenoid, flavonoid, omega-3 fatty acid, carbohydrate and starch, etc. In some regions of the tropics, leaves are used as a pot-herb, and to a lesser extent the green-shelled beans are eaten. In some places, young leaves are eaten as a salad. Bean crop residues can be fed fresh to livestock because directly grazed in the field, which could be avoided by harvesting it for cut and carry systems. After beans are harvested, straw is used for fodder and can be mixed with small grains in order to increase the protein content of silage. Harvesting technique and yield capacity In French bean, the first harvest is obtained after 45-50 days in bush type cultivars and after 60 days in pole type. So, from a season of crops usually three pickings from bush type and five pickings from pole type is taken but delay in harvesting may cause shattering. At the maturity, leaves and pods turn yellowish brown and majority of leaves drop. The harvested crop is kept for sun drying for 57 days and after drying it is threshed. Yield of French bean obtained for bush varieties 50-60 quintals/ha and for pole varieties 80-100 quintals/ha. Sometimes it has been reported that the yield under optimum conditions, 2.0-2.5 t/ha of grain and 3.0-3.5 t/ha straw yield can be obtained. CONCLUSION Among the legume crops, French bean are an appreciable and versatile legume because of their various usages in human diet as well as fodder for livestock. Due to rich protein and mineral sources, it can be consumed with green pods and leaves for vegetables as well dry seeds in human diet. Whereas, green pods, leaves and dry straw can be used for animals. Besides food and fodder, this crop can be used as green manure for improving soil health. After considering the importance and utility of French bean crops, it should be promoted by farmers in large or small scale. For further interaction, please write to: Dr. Ramesh Kumar Singh (Sr. Breeder Vegetable Crop), R&D Farm, Eagle Seeds & Biotech Ltd., Village- Brahmanpipliya, Mangliya, Indore, Madhya Pradesh 452 010. *Corresponding author email: rameshiivr@gmail.