 Dry spells are common. Needs processing for higher price. Turmeric Black soils (Irrigated) Sole turmeric produces low profits to farmers. Manual processing of turmeric is very expensive and time consuming Mango Irrigated with drips from ground water or harvested water Most of the orchards are very old and producing low yields. Chillies Irrigated Prone to pests and diseases 2 Central Telangana Zone Paddy-Fallow Kharif irrigated and rabi fallow due to limited availability of water Kharif paddy irrigated and in rabi season most of the fields are left fallow due to limited availability of water Cotton Red soils (rainfed) Cotton grown on red soils with poor water holding capacity suffers due to prolonged dry spells results in low productivity. So growing cotton under this situation becomes risky. Cotton is not a recommended crop on rainfed red soils. Black soils (Irrigated Cotton suffers on black soils where there is no life saving irrigation facilities during dry spells. Black soils (Rainfed) Sole cotton is very risky. Maize Rainfed (Red/black soils) Net income from sole maize is low due to insufficient availability of irrigation water. 537 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Major crop/ cropping system Farming situation Specific Production Constraint Mango Irrigated with drips from ground water or harvested water Most of the orchards are very old and producing low yields. Guava Irrigated with drips from ground water or harvested water Most of the orchards are very old and producing low yields. Chillies Irrigated Prone to pests and diseases Sweet orange With drip irrigation on different soils Present variety is not suitable for processing industry hence the net returns are low. Vegetables Protected conditions/ Inter crops in orchards Not able to meet the demand due to lack of shade net/ poly house facilities. Floriculture Protected conditions/ Inter crops in orchards Not able to meet the demand due to lack of shade net/poly house facilities. There is lot of potential for shade nets in peri- urban areas. 3 Southern Telangana Zone Cotton Red soils (Rainfed) Very low productivity of cotton due to lack of irrigation combined with poor water holding capacity of soils. Droughts or prolonged dry spells are very common. Lack of interest on traditional crops such as sorghum, ragi etc. Lack of rain water harvesting farm ponds. Maize Red soils/Black soils Poor yields due to lack irrigation water for life saving irrigations during dry spells. Redgram Red soils/Black soils Poor yields due to lack irrigation water for life saving irrigations during dry spells. Horticulture Red soils with drips from ground or harvested water Lack of awareness about rry land horticulture/fruit crops with drips and mulching. Vegetables Protected conditions/ Inter crops in orchards Not able to meet the demand due to lack of shade net/ poly house facilities.