 Gene banks need efficient characterization and up-to-date curation to make them more accessible and usable to the crop improvement community. Key takeaways Phenotypic and genetic evaluation is needed to remove black box of gene banks. Mapping domestic genes based on genotypic and phenotypic characters would help in marker-assisted germplasm conversion and breeding. 97 Cutting-edge Research TRANSLATIONAL GENOMICS FOR IMPROVEMENT OF HORTICULTURAL CROPS Umesh K. Reddy All the modern cultivars are domesticated from their wild relatives which possess several genes that resist, tolerate and bear with extreme biotic and abiotic stresses. In the process of domestication, the farmers had also developed landraces from wild populations, which are presently the part of the germplasm resource for several horticultural crops. Genomic research involving these resources allow understanding of natural variations for different important traits and genetic bottlenecks associated with domestication and modern plant breeding efforts. Genomic selection is done by prediction of total genetic value using genome- wide markers. There were differential DNA methylation patterns among diploid and tetraploid watermelons when they were sequenced. Tetraploid progenitors of triploid watermelon plants, compared with their diploid counterparts, exhibit wide phenotypic differences. The exploitation of synthetic polyploids for producing seedless fruits is well known Prof. Umesh K. Reddy is the Professor of Biology at West Virginia State University, West Virginia. His research interest areas are genomics, heavy-metal stress, biotic stress, polyploidy, molecular changes pertaining to grafting in plants, evolution and domestication and breeding and quantitative genetics of cotton, peppers, tomato, watermelon, blueberries and pomegranate. 98 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series in watermelon. Tissues of leaf, stem and fruit of diploid and tetraploid sweet watermelons were used to understand gene expression. Fruits have abundance of different bioactive compounds — phytochemicals (phenolic acids, flavonoids, carotenoids, tannins, lignans and stilbenes); vitamins (provitamin A, C, E and K); minerals (potassium, calcium and magnesium); and dietary fibres — which play a vital role in human health by checking on several chronic diseases, mainly coronary heart diseases, cancer, diabetes and cataracts etc. Capsaicinoids present in pepper produce pungency which have anti-oncogenic and anti-diabetic pharmacological properties and can be used to cure these diseases. Translational genomics represents a broad field of study that combines genome and transcriptome-wide studies in humans and model systems to refine understanding of human biology and ultimately in identifying new ways to cure and prevent diseases.