 ILRI works gave high prominence to reach the unreached, namely resource poor farmers, women and farmers in remote rural locations. 3. Projects/ activities in progress in India ILRI has an existing MoU with ICAR for joint Animal Science research activities on selected programmes of mutual interest, where collaboration can bring added value to the activities of both organisations building on and guiding the ILRI’s project activities. According to this, there will be a focus on promoting and undertaking collaborative research involving the expertise and facilities of Animal Science Institutes of ICAR/State Agricultural Universities and other organizations in India. Currently there are five ongoing ICAR funded projects: 3.1. Genomic techniques to profile and improve productivity and resilience in buffalo: This project aims to use genomic techniques to profile and improve productivity and resilience in buffalo. Key collaborators are ILRI and ICAR (Central Institute for Research on Buffalo). The goal of the project is to increase buffalo productivity through the use of superior buffalo genetics that meets the needs and preferences of women and men smallholder buffalo. Activities completed / in- progress to-date include: yy Review the Murrah buffalo breeding program and make recommendations in relation to the best means for it to incorporate genomic selection. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 55 yy Test the suitability of the currently available buffalo genotyping tool for the Indian Murrah buffalo population, and (if required) develop a more informative and / or less expensive genotyping tool. yy Develop and implement a smart tool for capture of animal sample data and transfer to a biorepository database. 3.2. Multi-dimensional improvement of food-feed crops: This project aims to improve feed quantity and quality without increasing land and water use through collaborations of livestock nutritionists and crop scientists to identify, select and breed major cereal and legumes (rice, wheat, maize, sorghum, pearl millet, small millets, groundnut, chick pea and pigeon pea) cultivars that provide superior grain yields and improved fodder quantity and quality in their crop residues than currently available cultivars. The following activities have already been completed: yy Collected crop samples from minor millet (IIMR) and rice breeding (CRRI) and sorghum and pearl millet forage breeding (IGFRI, IIMRI) yy Analysed all samples for a wide range of fodder quality traits and possible trade-offs at ILRI laboratory yy Shared crop (10) residue samples with NIANP to compare the impact of enzyme, fungal and AFEX (Ammonia Fibre Expansion) treatments (> 15% units in IVOMD) 3.3.