 There is a growing market for agricultural journalists and broadcasters/telecasters having formal education in agricultural journalism and agricultural communication academic disciplines. Continuous capacity building of agricultural extension professionals in Agricultural Journalism deserves priority attention. Common Service Centres numbering 3.47 lakhs may be utilized to also serve as ‘Extension Delivery Points’. KVKs need to be strengthened to focus on income enhancing technologies in PPP mode (value addition, post-harvest, agri-business enterprises). 8.4. Agri-preneurship and business incubation through skill development of rural youth The ICAR schemes like ARYA and Student READY (Rural Entrepreneurship Awareness Development Yojana) and Govt. of India schemes like Skill India, Start-up India, Stand-up India, Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana are also playing significant role in capacity building of farming community, especially the rural youth. If business motive can be effectively induced into this component, then successful agripreneurs can be developed in rural areas. Effective hand holding support and incubation should be provided to agri- startups which will attract youth towards agriculture and reduce their migration to urban areas. 8.5. Promotion of cooperatives and commodity clusters Similar to AMUL and Mother Dairy models may be promoted in other agricultural products Achievements in Agricultural Extension in Independent India 355 to take advantage of aggregation of resources. KVKs may help in capacity development of such groups in project management, fund and financing and agri-business and aggregation. 8.6. Farmers’ Local and Indigenous Practices (FLIP) Local and indigenous techniques along with the farmers’ innovations need to be validated and replicated in the similar agro-climatic region. Frontline extension has a great role in up-scaling and outscaling of these technologies. 8.7. Promotion of indigenous breeds/organic farming/natural farming The frontline extension to generate scientific evidences of natural farming and organic farming in different agro-climatic regions so that these technologies may help large scale awareness creation for viable and sustainable farm livelihoods. Improvements of desi breeds will be beneficial for farmers practicing natural farming. Building strong farmers institutions and farmer producer organizations will be beneficial for knowledge dissemination, credit, risk management and for marketing of produce of natural farming. 8.8. Farmer-led extension and group approach The Indian extension system has been suffering from lack of adequate manpower that impacts its reach out to the farmers. The alternative is farmer to farmer extension. Group approach helps in faster and more effective dissemination of information.