 This herbal ITK paste thus intramuscularly daily for 3 days). The foot-and- mouth lesions were washed with 1% potassium permanganate solution twice daily. Boroglycerine was applied on mouth lesions and Himax ointment was applied on foot lesions after washing. The healing of lesions was assessed on the basis of colour of wound, quantity and type of exudation and pain on a scale of 0-4. OUAT For the management of foot and mouth disease in cattle, 500 g each of harida and baheda seed powder was mixed with 2.5 lit water and applied twice a day after boiling. Total 12 cattle affected with FMD were randomly selected for the study and divided into 2 groups. The animals of first group were treated with ITK. Animals of second group received conventional allopathic veterinary medicines administered Enrofloxacin (10%) injection after washing the lesions with potassium permanganate or Povidone iodine. Boroglycerine was applied on the mouth lesions in the conventional treatment group. Table 1. Score obtained on different parameters of recovery from FMD foot lesions by applying harida+baheda at BAU Parameter Days of observation 0 2 4 6 8 10 Quantity of exudation 5 3 0 0 0 0 Peripheral swelling 7 5 3 0 0 0 Warmth 7 5 3 0 0 0 Pain 7 5 3 0 - - Colour of swelling 10 5 5 3 0 0 Quality of swelling 7 5 3 0 0 - prepared was applied on foot lesions @ 20 g twice daily for 6 days. A group of 12 cattle was treated with the conventional therapy, comprising of an antibiotic (Moxel @ 2-3 g intramuscularly daily for 4 days) and an analgesic (Butagesic @ 10 ml RESULTS AND DISCUSSION The animals treated with harida and baheda paste, at BAU recovered within 6-7 days (Table 1) but foot lesions took 17-18 days for complete cure. In allopathic treatment the initial improvement was noticed, although the wound Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY complications persisted. Peripheral swelling, warmness and pain were reduced in 3-4 days in the ITK-treated group. The clinical improvement was markedly significant in ITK treatment in comparison with allopathic treatment. The treatment of FMD foot lesions with harida- baheda paste was more cost effective than allopathic treatment. The health improvement was better than in allopathic-treated animals in the later phase of the disease. At WBUAFS the application of the ITK comprising harida and baheda resulted in recovery of foot lesions within 12 to 13 days. However, the conventional veterinary treatment resulted in recovery from foot-and-mouth lesions within 6 to 7 days. Wound exudation, pain and lameness decreased in both the treated groups 4 days after treatment (Table 2). The ITK proved effective in management of foot lesions in FMD though at lower efficacy than the conventional treatment. Histopathological study: This experiment was conducted to find out the cellular evidence of wound healing, which was assessed by histo- pathological studies in 30 rabbits, divided in two groups (Group I and Group II).