 Certain tribal people in North-East India have historically utilized this significant ethno- medicinal plant as a treatment for various health concerns. Tantulung Tatan and T S Mehra* I NDIA ranks as the world’s 18th most biodiversity nation and is the origin of many medicinal plants. There are about 46,000 plant species, including higher plants like gymnosperms, lower groupings, and angiosperms. For their various requirements, including food, fuel, medicine, wood, fiber, fruit, colours, and other products, humans are reliant on plants. Our traditional healthcare system benefitted greatly from the ancient practices of employing plants as medicines. India’s north-eastern states form a distinctively narrow route connecting the Indian sub-continent to East Asia and Southeast Asia. They are bordered in the north by the Himalayas and in the south by the Bay of Bengal. Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Mizoram, Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Tripura, and Sikkim are the eight states that make up the nations landlocked northeast. Arunachal Pradesh is the largest in the north-eastern region of India, covering an area of about 83,743 km2, and is situated in the Trans-Himalayan region. It is one of the Eastern Himalayan biodiversity hotspots. The family Fumariaceae is distinguished from the Papaveraceae on the account of their zygomorphic flowers and their watery (vs. usually coloured or milky) juice. The botanists include all fumariaceous taxa with iso-bilaterally symmetrical flowers and non- fused corollas in the genus Dactylicapnos Bernh. In the Fumariaceae family, the genus Dactylicapnos consists of approximately 20 species of biennial and perennial climbing herbs that are found all over temperate North America and Eastern Asia. The genus was first monographed by Hutchunson (1921). Distibution Dactylicapnos scandens (D. Don) Walp. synonymously known as Dicentra scandens is a herbaceous perennial climber, which belongs to the family Fumariaceae and is locally known as Rhoodo by Chakesang tribes of Nagaland, India. The plant grows well in temperate and sub-tropical conditions and is naturally distributed in the Central and Eastern Himalayan Region, viz. Bhutan and Sikkim, Nepal and Nagaland, between altitudes ranging from 1500–2500 m amsl and prefers cool climatic conditions; hot and dry weather is unfavourable for growth and development of plants. The plant prefers moist soil rich in organic matter and generally flowers between July and November in the wild and July and October in cultivation. Morphology Dactylicapnos scandens is a glabrous perennial climber with horizontally extended tubers, thicker, branched tap roots that resemble Dahlias and a web of finer, fibrous roots (Fig. 1). It is 2-4 m at maturity, half-hardy, slender throughout, pale green with scattered red linear markings, occasionally almost rugose, with slight yellow staining exudate present; nodes slightly swollen, appearing disjointed (i.e.