11 In Engineering and Technology, considering the growing importance of Agricultural Structures and Process Engineering, the committee is of the view that these disciplines be bifurcated into two separate disciplines for the purpose of recruitment to ARS. 11 3.12 Taking into account the functional needs of the ICAR with reference to its mandate and the suggestions received from various quarters, the Committee recommends 56 disciplines in the following seven major groups:- 1. Crop Sciences 2. Horticulture 3. Animal Sciences 4. Fishery Sciences 5. Natural Resource Management 6. Social Sciences 7. Engineering and Technology The nomenclature of disciplines under each major group are given in Annexure-II. The Committee suggests uniform nomenclature of disciplines to be adopted in future to avoid any confusion. 3.13 In order to have optimum results from this exercise, the Committee is of the considered view that ICAR should undertake a review of cadre strength of its Scientists in various disciplines in the ICAR Institutes since the same was done a decade ago. The Committee felt that the whole exercise of restructuring the ARS disciplines would be futile if the cadre strength of Scientists in various ICAR Institutes was not reviewed periodically. The Committee, therefore feels that there is an urgent need to undertake a holistic review on priority. Considering the importance and urgency of this issue, the Chairman had already addressed a communication to the DG, ICAR in this regard as an interim recommendation of the Committee. 3.14 The Committee also felt that similar exercise may also be carried out by the Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board for harmonizing the disciplines for conducting the NET and ARS Preliminary examinations in future. 12 4. ELIGIBILITY QUALIFICATIONS a) At Entry Level 4.1 Appropriate eligibility qualifications for each discipline of ARS at entry level is very crucial for making recruitment of suitable persons in order to carry out quality research in accordance with the mandate of ICAR. The Committee noticed that there were nearly 600 vacancies at the entry level in the ARS. The committee critically looked into the existing qualifications at entry level in ARS in various disciplines and it was observed that there were several anomalies in the existing qualifications in most of the disciplines. In many disciplines, the specializations required by the ICAR did not match with the specialization offered at the Master’s level by a number of SAUs including the deemed universities. As a result, there was a mismatch between demand and supply of qualified manpower leading to critical gaps in the recruitment process. This in turn is affecting the quality of research. 4.2 In view of the above, the Committee felt the need to broaden the scope of existing qualifications so as to ensure the bridging of critical gaps and shortage of qualified manpower.