 However, during slaughter decontamination of carcass with 1% lactic acid significantly reduced carcass contamination. Meat Products Buffalo meat products: Smoking and cooking schedule techniques were standardized at Livestock Products Technology Division, IVRI, Izatnagar, to produce low fat buffalo meat sausages. Direct smoking (without the stage of pre-drying the product) significantly reduced skin formation on the surface of low fat sausages. Chicken Meat Products Role of phytoproducts in extending shelf-life of minced chicken meat: This investigation was carried out to elucidate the antimicrobial property of some phyto- products in extending shelf-life of minced chicken meat both at ambient (28°-30°C) and refrigerated (5°±1°C) temperatures. Under ambient storage, incorporation of garlic extract (GE) in the minced chicken meat at 4.0 or 8.0% (v/w) level reduced aerobic and anaerobic bacterial counts by one log scale and extended its shelf-life by more than 6 hr as compared to that of untreated control. Similarly, under refrigerated storage both these levels of GE significantly reduced aerobic bacterial, coliforms, yeast and moulds and anaerobic counts and extended shelf-life of meat by more than one day as compared to that of untreated control. Cinnamon powder incoporation at 2.0 or 4.0% (w/w) level in minced chicken meat produced a marked inhibitory effect on the bacterial multiplication as compared to control during ambient storage. Thiobarbituric acid (TBA) values in treated meat samples were also lower PALADA PAYASAM INSTANT MIX Palada Payasam is a popular sweet delicacy in Kerala. The traditional method of its preparation is laborious and time consuming. Process modifications reduced the time of preparation of the product by accelerating the release of Maillard reaction products to provide the desired colour and flavour. A dry mix, having shelf life over 6 months at ambient temperature, was developed to prepare the Payasam in a convenient way. The Payasam prepared by using the mix had organoleptic characteristics similar to those of the traditional product. Encouraged by the market response during consumer acceptability studies of the product, a milk producers’ union in Kerala, procured the technology. The product is being marketed in Kerala. EGG ROLL—A VERSATILE PRODUCT DEVELOPED FOR INDIAN FAST FOOD MARKET Egg roll being a highly nutritious, tasty and convenience egg product offers a potential market at fast food outlets. Organolep- tically, the egg roll containing 80% scrambled egg with 20% chicken sausage was rated the best in flavour and texture. Survey conducted during refrigerated (5°+1°C) storage of the most acceptable blend indicated a shelf-life of 8 days in vacuum and 6 days in aerobic packaging. The cost of ingredients formulating an egg roll weighing about 145 g was calculated to be approximately Rs 10.00. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 122 as compared to control.