 Conclusion Research and development in potato will always look forward to continuous contribution, given its high productivity per unit of land and time and value as both a staple and a cash crop, increasing stress tolerance has a great potential to contribute to food and income security, mitigate poverty and farmer’s risk in minimizing vulnerable agricultural environments in the era of global climate change. Sustainable potato production under climate change scenario much depends on successful breeding of new varieties and adaptive crop management strategies. If researchers succeed in breeding more stress (drought, heat, salt, pests, etc.) resistant varieties that produce sufficient yields under climate change conditions (such as rise in temperature and CO2 concentration and disease and pest outbreak, etc.) then the wholesome potatoes will keep continuing to be grown in many regions in future. For further interaction, please write to: Dr V K Dua Dr V K Dua Dr V K Dua Dr V K Dua Dr V K Dua (Principal Scientist), ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla 171001, Himachal Pradesh. E-mail: vkdua65@yahoo.com A study reported that, due to rise in temperature, 16–22% of all wild potato species are on the verge of extinction by the year 2055. It is an alarming situation, as wild relatives are crucial gene pools for breeding new varieties. Hijmans (2003) predicted that without adaptation, most of the leading potato-producing countries of the world would suffer losses in potential yield. Results (for selected countries) showed that potential potato yield could be severely affected if no adaptation to variation is allowed (19-32%) whereas with adaptation the potential yield decreases (2–24%), but more significant differences between regions exist. Here, adaptation is defined as changes in the month of planting or the maturity class of cultivar. Simulation studies carried out in India indicate that rise in temperature will result in a change in potato productivity in selected parts of Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal under future climate scenarios of 2020 over the baseline scenario, whereas some parts of Punjab will get advantage in terms of high potato yield due to temperature rise in 2020. Higher yields due to higher CO2 concentration Effect of elevated CO2 level in controlled experiments conducted in Open top chambers (OTC), free air carbon enrichment (FACE) and growth chambers suggest a positive effect on growth and yield of potato with only a few negative influences. Increase in tuber yield is estimated to be approximately 10% for every 100 ppm increase in CO2 concentration. These positive effects are attributed to increased photosynthesis from 10 to 40%. Simulation analysis indicated that CO2 levels of 700 ppm could increase tuber yield (20- 30%) while FACE studies showed an increase in tuber yield by >40% at the rate of 10% per 100 ppm increase in CO2.