 25(c) (ii) The Chairman may in writing, delegate such of his powers as he may consider necessary to any other member of the ASRB. 12 Functions 26. (a) The Recruitment Board shall function as an Independent recruiting agency and shall be responsible for recruitment to posts in the Agricultural Research Service and to such other posts and services as may be specified by the President from time to time. (b) The Recruitment Board shall render such other assistance to the Council in personnel matters including promotion as may be required by the President. (c) The Recruitment Board shall advise the Council in disciplinary matters relating to personnel recruited/appointed either by the Council itself or in consultation with the Recruitment Board. (d) The Recruitment Board shall submit annually by the second week of May of the year following the financial year a report on its activities for each financial year to the President. VIII. MEETINGS OF THE SOCIETY Annual General Meeting 27. The Annual General Meeting of the Society shall be held on such date, time and place as may be determined by the President. Special General Meeting 28. (a) The President may convene a Special General Meeting of the Society whenever he thinks fit. (b) At all Special General Meetings, no subject other than that stated in the notice or requisition, as the case may be, shall be discussed except when specially authorized by the President. (c) Any requisition so made by the members of the Society shall express the object of the meeting proposed to be called and shall be left at the address of the Secretary. (d) The President shall convene a Special General Meeting of the Society on the written requisition of not less than fifteen members of the Society. Calling of the meetings 29. All meetings of the Society shall be called by notice in writing by and under the hand of the Secretary. Notice for meetings 30. Every notice calling a meeting of the Society shall state the date, time and place of the meeting and shall be served upon every member of the Society 13 not less than fifteen clear days before the day appointed for the meeting. Validation of meetings 31. Any inadvertent omission to give notice to or the due to late or non-receipt non-receipt or late receipt of notice by any member of notice shall not invalidate the proceedings of the meeting. chairman of the meetings 32. (a) The President shall preside over all meetings and his election of the Society. In his absence the Vice- President shall preside over the meetings of the Society. In the absence of the President and the Vice-President, the members present shall choose one from amongst themselves to be the Chairman of the meeting. (b) No business shall be discussed at any meeting of the Society except the election of a Chairman, whilst the chair is vacant. Quorum 33. Fifteen members of the Society present in person shall form a quorum at any meeting of the Society. Determination of 34.