), ICAR – Member Secretary 7 Introduction The committee met several times and discussed on the possibility of using one or more of the following various options for ex-situ crop residue management options: • Biomass pellets from Crop Residues as a fuel substitution in thermal power plants • Biogas production from paddy straw at domestic / community level • Industrial level production of Biogas / Bio-CNG / Compressed Bio-gas (CBG) from Paddy Straw • Power Generation from Biomass • Alcohol production from paddy straw (lignocellulosic biomass) • Ex-situ Composting of Paddy Straw. Utilization of crop residues as fuel for power generation will not only discourage in-field crop residue burning abating air pollution, but will also reduce carbon footprint of coal based power plants. Bio-CNG / Compressed Bio-gas (CBG) producing projects may be integrated with existing retail networks of Oil PSUs and other industries relying on gas based energy. It will provide off take assurance for crop residues to the CBG project developers. Government of India has allowed procurement of ethanol produced from non-food feedstock cellulose and lignocelluloses based materials besides molasses, subject to meeting the relevant BIS standards. The details of these various options and their economic analysis are given in the following sections of the report.  8 Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options T HE biomass pellets are preferred in the thermal power plant because of the small diameter and sizes and the good binding strength they possess. They burn also very easily along with coal, the common fuel in power plants. Biomass pellet making is a standard method for the production of high density, solid energy carriers from biomass. Pellets are manufactured in several types and grades as fuels for electric power plants, other industrial uses, homes, and other applications. Pellet- making equipment are available at a variety of sizes and scales, which allows manufacture at domestic as well industrial-scales. Pellets have a cylindrical shape and are about 6-25 mm in diameter and 3-50 mm in length. Size Reduction of Biomass: Before feeding biomass to pellet mills, the biomass should be reduced to small particles of the order of not more than 3 mm. If the pellet size is too large or too small, it affects the quality of pellet and in turn increases the energy consumption. Therefore the particles should have proper size and should be of consistent in size. Size reduction is done using a hammer mill equipped with a screen of size from 3.2 to 6.4 mm. If the feedstock is quite large, it goes through a chipper before grinding. Binders for Pelletizing: Binders or lubricants may be added in some cases to produce higher quality pellets. Binders increase the pellet density and durability. Wood contains natural resins which act as a binder. Similarly, sawdust contains lignin which holds the pellet together.