 In the continued experiment on long-term preservation, 11 test fungi were preserved (as mycelial discs and mycelium grown on wheat grain) in cryovials containing glycerol as cryoprotectant. These were stored in liquid nitrogen at – 196°C following the principle of slow cooling and rapid thawing. Forty-two Agaricus bisporus germplasm lines comprising commercial strains, wild collections from India and exotic strains were characterized for mycelial growth and colony type on different media. More than 800 SSIs were characterized for colony morphology and growth rate. The SSIs showing slow mycelial growth were screened for future hybrid developmental programme. About 18 SSIs of P. sajor-caju and 36 hybrids were developed by pairing SSIs in all possible combinations. Amongst hybrids developed, PSCH 19, was found to be the fastest growing and fruited in 12 days time only. Improved method of compost preparation using indoor bunker was standardized. The compost was prepared in 13 days, with improved output and reduced shrinkage of base materials. An average of 17.3 kg of mushroom from 100 kg compost in 6 weeks of cropping was harvested under environment-controlled conditions. Effect of different temperature regimes on pinhead initiation in A. bisporus showed higher number of pinhead initiation at 14±2°C. For fruit body development, it was observed that raising the room temperature by 4–5°C in the treatment at 14±2°C hastened the growth of pinheads to mature fruit bodies. Development of fruit bodies studied in Agaricus bitorquis strain NCB-13, produced 58.83% of medium-sized fruit bodies of 3-5 cm pileus diameter. Different agro-byproducts/industrial byproducts were evaluated as casing materials in cultivation of A.bisporus. Biozyme (a biofertilizer) application as a spray @ 0.2 ml/kg dry substrate in 1 and 2 spray schedules gave significantly higher mushroom yield in P. flabellatus. Three biofertilizers namely, Azotobacter, Azospirillum and Microphos @ 0.5 and 0.75% of wet weight of substrate were applied at the time of spawning and spawned with P. sapidus. Azospirillum at both the concentrations and Azotobacter at 0.5% gave significantly higher mushroom yields over untreated control. Volvariella strain, OVV 01, obtained from Orissa Agricultural University, showed highest level of enzyme production on wheat straw substrate, while OE 29 and OVV 03 on paddy straw, and strain OVV 01 and OVV 03 on wild grass. Laccase Leaf blight resistant taro Muktakeshi Button mushroom grown in an environment- controlled room l About 204 wild mushroom specimens were collected. l A most-prized medicinal mushroom, Red Reishi, was produced organically. l An indigenous technology for produc- ing medicinal mushroom has also been standardized.