 yy Food chain analysis of pesticides, as one of the key parameters under ecosystem services needs to be included. yy BI has been advised to undertake geomapping of TR4 in partnership with ICAR institutions. yy BI was advised to have clarity on the administrative mechanism while transferring germplasm to UHS, Bagalkot. Director, NBPGR testified that all copies related to germplasm exchange is available. DDG (HS), however, opined that the territorial jurisdiction of available germplasm will be with IIHR. yy The BI was advised to work systematically and to have separate discussions with the SMDs concerned for. Over all, the progress made by Bioversity International was satisfactory. (XI) International Centre for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) i. Dr. V.P. Singh made efforts for progress presentation. Due to poor connectivity, the presentation could not be heard completely. Therefore, he was advised to share the presentation by email to ADG (IR). ii. Director, ICAR-IIPR affirmed that about 1200 germplasm of common bean were shared by CIAT with IIPR, and if the Bio-fortified germplasm high in Cu, Fe and Zn could be shared with IIPR. The following suggestions were made: yy Further, DG (ICAR) warranted CIAT to take up capacity building of ICAR scientists in digital agriculture on priority. yy In view of CIAT-Bioversity Alliance, our work plans with CIAT and Bioversity need to be re- examined. It is required to be realigned with the Alliance objectives and action plan for enhanced efficiency and faster progress. (XII) International Potato Center (CIP) i. Dr. S. Mohanty gave the presentation on the ICAR-CIP collaboration. A total of 119 potato clones were supplied to the Indian partners and import permits for 419 germplasm lines were enabled. He also underlined that the tropical virus resistant germplasm gave good results in the Indian soils and are being promoted. ii. CIP clone 397006.18 and the biofortified `Yussi Map’ has been recommended in 2018-19 for cultivation in hot-arid and hot sub-humid to humid conditions, respectively. Three more clones are presently in AICRP trials, he added. iii. Further, 20000 orange flesh sweet potato seeds have been shared with Central Tuber Crops Research Institute (CTCRI) and being prepared for trials in 2020. For the first time, zero-tillage potato cultivation was successfully demonstrated in Assam and Odisha, adding value to the conservation agricultural practices. The “Small Farmer Large Field Model (SFLF)” was piloted in 15 locations in two states (Assam and Odisha). The results of these pilots showed an impressive yield increase – average of around 11 tons per acre. 700 farmers benefitted from these SFLF interventions. iv. Apical root cuttings were reported to be successful in Odisha, Karnataka, Assam and Haryana; this standardized protocol is being shared with the states for mass multiplication. The ongoing works would continue in 2020 as well.