 Banana sucker trimmer equipment: The banana sucker to be trimmed is held against the rotating grating blade (300 mm) and adjusted as per the area and the depth of the banana sucker to be trimmed. The grates are arranged in set of three rows of grates (22 grates, 5 mm size). Similarly, there are six sets of grates around the circumference of the blade. A variable speed motor is attached to the unit, to adjust the operating speed. The blade can be rotated in any direction. The overall size of the equipment is 750 mm × 500 mm × 850 mm. The model is very handy as the exact area of the sucker to be trimmed can be targeted, thus the final product obtained is of a better finish. The Model farm machinery package for different agro- climatic zones of India As per National Agricultural Research Project, the country has 127 agro-climatic zones. Every zone is suitable for a certain range of crops and cultivars, which requires suitable machinery. To create awareness and make better use of available machinery, a model farm machinery package for different agro-climatic zones of India was developed, and is available as web based and mobile app. The developed model farm machinery package is able to provide details of state wise, agro-climatic zone wise, district wise, cropping pattern wise and power source wise model machinery package. It also includes economic parameters such as machine cost, per hour operating cost, hiring rate, the total annual cost and net return, break-even analysis, payback period, machine specifications and available manufacturers for different agro-climatic zones of India. The developed package is very useful in calculating various technical and economic parameters leading to decision making for establishment of technically feasible and economically viable model farm machinery for custom hiring at various agro-climatic zones/districts in India. Pneumatic precision planter for pigeon pea MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 87 capacity of the equipment is about 80–90 banana suckers/h. Banana pseudo stem injector: The developed banana pseudo stem injector consists of chemical tank, peristaltic pump, control unit with non-return valve and injector. The injector is made of SS 304 Grade of 7.5 cm length. The chemical tank is made of plastic with storing capacity of 16 litre. The peristaltic pump is attached to pump the liquid from chemical tank to injection system. The control unit is integrated with embedded system to control chemical quantity and depth of injection by 8 mm I/P and O/P screw variable valve. The non-return valve (¼ thread, one way valve) is attached with control unit to restrict the chemical reentry to the injector after injection. Preliminary trials have been conducted and extensive trials are in progress. The quantity of liquid injected is 2 to 4 ml/tree and coverage is around 140–150 trees/h. The spillage percentage is 2% and injector efficiency 95%.