 Dairy farming has always been a sub-system of agriculture in such household units which entirely depends on the recyclable crop residues. Moreover the milk production system has been mainly confined to landless labourers, small and marginal farmers. Their poor socio-economic condition, religious sentiments for cattle and utilitarian attitude towards dairy farming coupled with poor milk production potential of dairy animals has remained a major impediment in the overall development of the system. Livestock is an important source of supplementary income. Mixed farming has been serving as an insurance against natural calamities, while supporting food security and nutrient recycling. Profitability of a dairy enterprise can significantly be increased if a dairy farmer knows the art of combining ideas, facilities, processes, materials and labour for optimum production from dairy animals and proper marketing of the produce. A successful dairy farmer should plan, organize, coordinate, direct and control all his resources by deciding what to do, how to do it and when. For correct decision-making he should be well informed about all kinds of information affecting his dairy business. Dairy farming therefore, State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 127 could be an important vocation for rural youth. Delhi had around 1,62,000 buffaloes and around 86,000 cattle as per 19th Livestock census of 2012 (see Table 13). Generally, farmers in Delhi are rearing 2-3 animals particularly buffaloes for milk for their home consumption. It can be upscaled on commercial basis to increase their income. The training facility for dairy farming is available at KVK Ujwa of Nazafgarh block. A dairy unit of 20 animals (buffaloes /Cows or both) is viable. A farmer can earn about 5-6 lakhs per year from the unit. For establishment the dairy unit of 20 animals a shed measuring 20x 100 square feet will be required along with a store for straw and concentrate. Source of clean drinking water is must. The Murrah buffaloes are available at Rohtak, Jind and Hissar while crossbred cows are available at Karnal, Patiala and Jaipur area. Generally, one buffalo or cow is costing about Rs. 70,000 to1.00 Lakh. The Government of Delhi should support the farmers by providing subsidy on the loan. Different banks may provide loans to the rural youth in starting the Dairy unit as different locations. It is recommended that animals should get balanced feed having dry, green fodder and concentrate along with essential minerals to produce milk at full capacity. Animal should be dewormed and vaccinated against important diseases. A good dairy management is always required. A farmer should utilize animal dung for Vermicomposting and Biogas production by establishment of both units near dairy farm. By selling milk directly to the consumer he can get good prices or he can process the milk and milk products by utilizing the biogas he gets from his biogas plants.