 Traditional manual method of using knife is time consuming, unsafe and unhygienic. The sugarcane rind remover consists of four metallic brushes attached to the rotating shaft. When the sugarcane is inserted between the four metallic brushes, skin of the sugarcane is removed due to the rotation of the brushes. The feeding arrangement is made of two nylon rollers rotating at about 270 rpm, which dropping chute. The overall dimension of the equipment is 900 × 450 × 1,600 mm, and weighs 22 kg. The capacity of the equipment is 50 fruits/h. The extraction efficiency is 100%. Bay-leaves (Tejpatta) grinder: An animal drawn rotary mode gear operated grinder for bay leaves was developed. It consists of cyclone separator, frame, cutting blade and rotary gear power system. Efficiency of the animal-drawn hammer mill ranges from 35.78 to 57.71%, average particle size varies from 0.143 to 0.227 mm, minimum value of flow-ability varies from 7.56 to 8.27 sec. By decreasing the particle size the flow-ability of powder decreases. The hygroscopic value of the bay leaf powder ranged from 3.65 to 4.79%. The value of lightness increases with increase in temperature during animal drawn grinding. The quality of the product is better than that of traditional method and has higher value as compared to traditional method. Ragi thresher-cum-pearler: A ragi thresher-cum- pearler to be operated by a bullock-operated system was developed for simultaneous threshing and pearling of harvested matured and dried ragi ear heads. This equipment consists of a hopper, threshing cylinder, a pair of oscillating screens and one aspirator. The cost of operation is ` 200/q by the developed machine as compared to ` 500/q in manual method resulting in financial benefit of ` 300/q to the farmers, time saving and reduced drudgery in threshing operation. The cost of the technology is ` 35,000. Turmeric polisher for dust reduction: The conventional method to polish turmeric is a machine of rotary type, made up of octagonal shaped drum covered with expanded wire mesh. Polishing is affected by rubbing and abrasive actions of turmeric rhizomes one over the other and over the metal surface. The removed skin pieces are thrown out through the perforations in the drum and produce a dusty atmosphere in the polisher operating area, leading to the respiratory problem for the operator and hazard to the environment. The new turmeric polisher is provided with a special cover possessing the characters of 100% waterproof, highly durable, very tough to tear, repairable by heat sealing, stays light in rains, easy to handle, fungus and termite resistant and UV stabilized. The Sugarcane rind removing equipment for juice making enables retention of the canes to be peeled for sufficient time in the peeling zone. The equipment is mounted on wheels enabling easy transportation from one place to another. The overall size of the equipment is 1,350 × 900 × 1,500 mm.