 This alternative farming method focuses more on soil productivity in an organic approach intended to promote long-term soil, plant, and human health. It is a new dimension for sustainability and increased farmer income and is regarded as the basis of crop diversity in terms of fruits, vegetables, spices, medicinal plants, and aromatic plants in mixed farming. ZBNF is zero cost or zero input natural farming, whatever, the quantity is harvested is treated as net profit to the farmer. To preserve ecological balance and encourage soil health, this zero-cost farming employs organic inputs. Native-breed cattle are a crucial component of rural agricultural households and are needed for this strategy. According to this method, one cow is sufficient to begin farming on 30 acres of land. SPNF has lots of potential for low- income farmers. This method supports the complete abolition of synthetic chemical inputs, including fertilizers and insecticides. It promotes the use of mulching methods, symbiotic intercropping, and natural combinations created from cow dung, cow urine, jaggery, pulse flour, etc. Jeevamrit, Beejamrit, mulching (acchadan), and Waaphasa are the four main components of natural farming to rehabilitate the soil. The natural plant protection products namely, Agniaster, Brahmaster, and Neemaster, among others, are made from cow dung, cow urine, and green chillies. Jeevamrit’s formulation improves the soil’s natural microbial biota and earthworm activity. It is made up of soil, water, jaggery, pulse flour, cow dung, and urine. Cow dung and urine are combined in the second formulation, i.e. Beejamrit, which is used to treat seeds, seedlings, and other planting material. The third formulation is known as achchadana, which is a mulching method that uses three different types of mulch including straw mulch, soil mulch, and live mulch. It serves as a barrier to water evaporation and aids in the development of soil humus. The fourth and last one is Whapasa, which is a way of maintaining the soil’s air and water molecules. It aids in lowering the additional watering consumption. Natural farming methods can help farmers to become less reliant on external inputs and enhance their social and economic well-being. It encourages the use of locally accessible resources and increases crop diversification, it can also boost food security. Case study In 2016–17, Himachal Pradesh adopted the natural farming method. Later, the State Government changed the name of ZBNF to Subhash Palekar Natural Farming System. In all 12 districts of the state, 53,951 farmers have accepted the SPNF model (partially), with an objective to train 50,000 farmers in the financial year 2019–20. The Himachal Pradesh government introduced the PK3Y Scheme of the Central Government to motivate farmers towards natural farming. It seeks to reduce cultivation costs and increase farm income for farmers’ overall and long-term welfare and prosperity.