 Large- scale use of the available technique of micropropagation (in vitro clonal propagation) can only meet the demand for seed material for the future expansion of seaweed farming. Important priority areas in the post-harvest sector are: bringing out better designs of new- generation, fuel-efficient and multi-purpose green fishing vessels and gears; thrust on Achievements in Fisheries and Aquaculture in Independent India 205 the deep-sea and distant water fishing with facilities of onboard handling, preservation, packaging and quality control; development of value-added products; addressing issues related to food safety; and value addition of discards. 4. Conclusion The fishing and aquaculture sectors in India have shown steady growth in the past few decades which further aims to improve through continued R&D backing, local support networks for capture and aquaculture production, value chain development, and marketing. Motorization and mechanization of fishing boats as well as parallel advancements in craft and gear technology and navigation, considerably aided in the rise in productivity of marine capture fisheries. Marine fisheries production in the country has stagnated and many concerns demand rapid attention, the primary one being management efforts aiming at sustainability. Due to the saturation of conventional fishing grounds, any increase in marine output should come from offshore fisheries, which require improved technology, management, and infrastructure. Climate change research, their effect, and current mitigation strategies should be assessed, and appropriate technologies/interventions based on forecasts should be deployed and changed as needed. There is enormous potential for expanding fish output from reservoirs, and both traditional and contemporary farming methods such as cage culture might be used to do so. GIS-based inland water resource mapping is crucial for identifying and planning the optimal locations for culture or other fisheries-related activities. In the aquaculture sector, the achievements in induced breeding, seed production, and culture procedures aided to production basket enormously. Greater thrust on diversification aimed at bringing high-value new candidate species and production systems with greater water and energy use efficiency is expected to boost the farming in all three sectors i.e., in freshwater, brackishwater and marine waters. Frontier research fields such as selective breeding, genomic section, genetic engineering, cryopreservation, surrogate fish development, and bioprospecting have sparked a considerable interest to increase production output. With changing climatic circumstances, it is necessary to produce strains with high thermal tolerance that can survive in a broad range of water temperatures. The development of breeding methods for native ornamental fishes has enormous promise.