 By harnessing the power of innovation, the G20 seeks to unlock agricultural productivity, improve resource use efficiency, and enhance sustainability. The G20 Summit acknowledges the significance of international trade in agricultural products for global food security. By promoting fair and transparent trade practices, reducing trade barriers, and addressing market distortions, the G20 seeks to create a level playing field for agricultural producers around the world. The summit also recognizes the importance of coordinating agricultural policies to achieve mutually beneficial outcomes and overcome challenges related to trade imbalances and market volatility. The G20 Summit serves as a platform for leaders to engage in constructive dialogue and forge partnerships that promote fair and sustainable agricultural trade. The G20 Summit represents a pivotal opportunity for global leaders to address the challenges and opportunities within the realm of agriculture. By placing agriculture at the forefront of its agenda, the G20 is committed to fostering sustainable practices, enhancing food security, empowering smallholder farmers, and embracing technological innovation. As we navigate an increasingly interconnected world, the G20’s collective efforts in agriculture hold the key to achieving a resilient, inclusive, and prosperous global food system that can sustainably feed the growing population while safeguarding our planet for generations to come. (Himanshu Pathak) email: dg.icar@nic.in 3 ICAR REPORTER April - June 2023 Northeast India Sustainability Conclave on Productivity and Green Growth 21 April 2023, Medziphema, Nagaland. ‘Northeast India Sustainability Conclave on Productivity and Green Growth to Advance Sustainable Development’ was jointly organized by NPC, DPIIT, MoC&I, GoI and ICAR-NRC on Mithun, on 13 April 2023. Shri Sundeep K Nayak, IAS, Director General, National Productivity Council, Chief Guest, stated that NPC is spearheading the green growth moment in the country which provides technical assistance for the promotion of green growth. Dr B N Tripathi, DDG (Animal Science), ICAR, New Delhi stated that climate change is an important issue to address and said that organic and natural farming practices are gaining popularity in Nagaland as a means of promoting sustainable agriculture and preserving the environment. Dr DN Thakur, National President, Sahakar Bharati, emphasized on proper food storage for its availability during the lean season. Dr KM Bujarbaruah, Former DDG (Animal Science) and Former Vice Chancellor, AAU, Jorhat, delivered a lecture on crop and livestock-based natural farming with special reference to Northeast India. Dr S Venugopal, Director, National Institute of Technology, Nagaland, highlighted the importance of green manufacturing in Northeast India. Dr Girish Patil S, Director of ICAR-NRCM, highlighted the role of Mithun in Natural farming.