 Key takeaways Agricultural biotechnology acts as a platform for transformational changes in agriculture. Development of enabling regulatory policies would help smallholder farmers to adopt agri-biotech products and increase production and thus secure their livelihood. Creation of a knowledge platform for sharing information is important for harnessing benefits of modern agricultural biotechnology. 104 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series DESIGNER TECHNOLOGIES TO INCREASE PRODUCTIVITY AMONG LIVESTOCK M.L. Madan Since domestication of animals, natural selection was leading to production and selection. Animal improvement over centuries has mainly been due to selection of animals on the basis of their phenotypes. Lately, however, the gene technology has brought in the possibility of selecting animals on the basis of the genotype along with the phenotype. Using animal gametes, it has become possible to manipulate reproductive events to produce customized young ones. Embryo transfer technology (ETT) where embryos are collected from the donor females and transferred into the uterus of the recipient has resulted in faster genetic change, along with increasing number of offspring sired from superior females and can even have offspring from old or injured animals incapable of breeding or calving naturally and thus would increase in farm income from the sale of embryos. Embryo technology using electric manipulators can produce identical twins. IVF technology or In Vitro Fertilization is a procedure that can be used to treat Dr M.L. Madan is a distinguished veterinarian, agricultural expert, animal biotechnologist, academician and a research manager. He has contributed significantly in the national agricultural development in different agri-ecoregions across India. He pioneered research in animal biotechnology and his research contributed in transformation of several protocols for animal reproduction and health. 105 Cutting-edge Research infertile animals that are with blocked tubes and low sperm counts. Worlds first IVF buffalo calf ‘Pratham’ was developed in 1990 at the National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal. A rich source of animal biodiversity exists in the local species and breeds, which possess quality genes with excellent traits. Molecular markers are being used increasingly to identify and select genes with desirable traits. Artificial insemination, embryo transfer and other assisted reproductive technologies have been used in the genetic improvement of livestock, particularly cattle and buffaloes; and the economic returns have been enormous. The knowledge of the genome has brought in another dimension of predicting performance of the animal in terms of series of traits. Technological interventions such as transgenics have become tools to design an animal genotype through transgenic production and introduction of new traits for increasing productivity of the animal.