 Issues of KVKs KVKs face a myriad of challenges that require attention to bolster their efficiency and effectiveness. Initially allocated with a sanctioned strength of 22 personnel, the current workforce has dwindled to just 16 individuals. Concurrently, the scope of mandated activities has expanded significantly, and expectations of diverse stakeholders has also increased manifold to address the current agricultural challenges. Moreover, crunch of human resources (vacant positions) at the KVK level exacerbate its strain, impeding their ability to function optimally. Further, lack of uniformity and various administrative and financial issues related to KVK personnel across the host organisations is impacting their performance. Considering the role of decentralized decision making in excelling extension activities at the KVK level, the need is being felt to delegate the matching authority to KVK Heads across the host organizations. Despite possessing qualifications equivalent to academic faculty members at State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) and ICAR Scientists, SMSs in KVKs also need equitable acknowledgment and recognition. Therefore, the host organisations have greater role to play in addressing such issues for the betterment of KVK system. CONCLUSION The establishment of KVKs by the ICAR was an important institutional innovation, marking a significant milestone in the last five decades. The remarkable growth in their numbers, currently standing at 731 across the country, underscores the importance of these centres in fostering agricultural development. KVKs play a crucial role in the assessment and dissemination of agricultural technology, earning widespread appreciation for their impactful contributions. Notably, no other agricultural system in the country, be it large or small, boasts a decentralized research capacity as robust as the frontline initiatives undertaken by KVKs at the district level. These Farm Science Centres serve as dynamic hubs for research, extension, and capacity building, facilitating the seamless transfer of cutting- edge agricultural technologies to farmers. The district- level presence of KVKs ensures that the benefits of research and innovation reach at the grassroots level, and directly impacting local farming communities. The KVK model has indeed emerged as a beacon of success in agricultural development. However, as we confront new challenges, it becomes imperative to pivot our focus towards the conservation of natural resources, achieving higher agricultural productivity sustainably, and enhancing farmers’ income by optimizing the farming-to-market value chain efficiency. In this evolving landscape, KVKs need to strengthen its efforts not only in transforming agriculture, but also ensuring economic sustainability, and accelerating future agricultural growth.