 Using waste water from dairy and other domestic effluents Promote in-situ conservation, water harvesting and management at farms. Encourage raised beds with block furrow irrigation. Incentivize roof-water harvesting in rural/ urban areas. Promote and train Water User Groups (WUGs) on a large-scale. Enhance subsidy on 5 HP solar water pumps on cooperative basis to farmers’ groups. Train farmers on biodegradable mulching practices. Divert urban run-off to recharge zones. Ensure steps for reducing BOD and COD levels of effluent irrigation water. Conduct crop-water balance and optimal crop planning studies at taluka levels. 2. Facilitating farm mechani- zation Available farm power is only about 1.20 kW/ha in Gujarat, which is less than the national average. Farmers’ skill-sets need to be improved. PPP mode production of machinery for top down and bottom up approach. Providing vocational skills to youth on farm machinery. a. Promote need based affordable farm machineries especially for small and marginal farmers. b. Identify and train rural/urban youth on skills relating to repair, maintenance and innovation of small tools. c. Incentivize entrepreneurs for farm machinery production through start- ups. d. Innovate and proliferate panchayat level custom hiring centers (CHCs). e. Establish Agricultural Engineering Directorate at state levels for better proliferation of farm mechanization. 3. Proliferating market led extension & e-extension opportunities Market led extension is a low key affair in thestate. Utilization of available e-extension services is very poor. Promote use of market price information and market intelligence services. Assure affordable high speed internet connectivity in villages. a. Promote use of market intelligence and market information services in extension trainings and programmes. b. Improve awareness and use of e-extension programmes like i-khedut, e-krishi kiran and other mobile applications via e- extension programmes. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 165 Sl Issue Status Action Plan (Including policy No reforms) Implementing Strategy 4. Managing yield gap and reducing costs Yield rates of all major crops in Gujarat are only 50 per cent to 75 per cent of their potential yields. a. Strengthening the distribution of quality inputs. b. Improvising farm mechanization. c. Increasing the production and utilization of bio- agents. a. Follow-ups of Krishi mahotsavs by line departments to improve adoption of technologies. b. Increasing budget on ‘Farmers Inter- State Exposure Visits and Training Scheme’ . c. Improving farm mechanization by innovating small implements and proliferating custom hiring centres (CHCs) . d. Encouraging use of green manures, biofertilizers and Biopesticides among farmers through awareness programmes. 5. Alleviating farm financial distress Financial distress alone accounted for 38.7 per cent of farmer suicides in India.