 Women Men Weeding Seeding and watering Conducting nearly all activities related to animal husbandry Operating machines (tractor, harvester) and transportation Preparing fertilizer manure Binding and shifting crops Collecting fodder Leveling land Providing farm labor, particularly during peak agriculture season Selecting and purchasing agricultural inputs (seeds, fertilizers, and pesticides) Tending kitchen gardens Applying pesticides Maintaining crop storage Selling crops P. Barooah et al. Agricultural Systems 212 (2023) 103751 8 the duration of the monsoon and winter, were seen as important climate change indicators, and particularly harmful to crops and the cropping timeline. Some other indicators of climate change discussed included unexpectedly high fog during winters, increased frequency of cyclones in coastal districts, a crisis of water availability for agriculture, an increased frequency of hailstorms, and instances of floods in drought- prone areas. Some farmers expressed during discussions that the water-holding capacity of soil has reduced over the years and there is now an increased water requirement for some crops. The FGDs revealed that increased cases of pest infestations have occurred in the region, increasing farmers’ dependence on chemical pesticides. Farmers felt that climate change had increased uncertainty in crop output and negatively affected the quality of vegetables and fruits, resulting in investments in more expensive stress-tolerant seeds, increased labor costs, and higher costs for chemical fertilizers and pes­ ticides. These negative impacts have increased the probability of crop failure, leading to higher indebtedness and lower savings. All of these impacts have a very real manifestation on human lives and health: many farmers stated that human productivity is suffering due to prolonged and increased heat waves. Respondents reported increased instances of illness among farmers due to exposure to chemical inputs. These uncertainties have forced small farmers and youth to either move away from agriculture or to work as laborers on larger farms to supplement their income. Several discussions highlighted that farmers have started reducing area under cultivation to minimize eco­ nomic losses due to crop failure. These impacts were echoed by farmers engaged in livestock and animal husbandry, who noted a shortage of cattle fodder and increased morbidity and mortality of cattle. Many farmers who engaged in both on-farm and livestock activities reported selling cattle to tide over crop losses induced by harsh and uncertain rainfall. Most men farmers felt that the most significant impact of climate change was its impact on agricultural productivity and their household income. Women farmers reflected on the impact of climate change on aspects such as food and nutrition security, health and related health­ care expenses, and price fluctuations for basic household commodities, including food.