 10 Agricultural Universities (AUs) in India Domain of AU Number State Agricultural Universities 39 Veterinary Universities 15 Horticulture Universities 06 Fisheries Universities 03 Deemed Universities 04 Central Agricultural Universities 03 Central Universities with Agricultural Faculties 04 Total 74 Doctoral Programs 80; PG level Subjects 95; UG Level subjects 11 setup colleges on land grant pattern as a solution to solve the problem of agricultural education. The team recommended strengthening of post graduate teaching and research in agricultural subjects as well as effective coordination of agricultural education, research and extension. These recommendations laid the foundation for the creation of agricultural universities and research in agricultural sciences. The contracts were signed with the 5 US land grant universities. According to contracts, each contracting US university had to work with agricultural colleges and research station in India for some definite period. In 1955, Government of Uttar Pradesh in consultation with University of Illinois, presented a proposal to the Government of India for establishing a university on the land grant pattern. A contract between the Government of India, the Technical Cooperation Mission and few US land grant universities, was signed to promote agricultural education in India. The task of mentoring the proposed university in Uttar Pradesh was assigned to the University of Illinois. The University was dedicated to the Nation on 17 November 1960. Illinois faculty served the university in designing its education system and putting in place an effective research and extension system for a period of 12 years. In 1958, the second joint Indo American Team on Agricultural Education Research and Extension was appointed to frame proposals for third Five Year Plan. The Team reinforced proposals to adopt land grant pattern, with autonomous status, integrating agriculture and allied areas as well as teaching research and extension. OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 11 The initial establishment of Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology (GBPUAT) University brought about a revolution in agricultural education, research and extension, and it paved the way for setting up of 29 other state agricultural universities in the country by the year 1999. Reorganization of ICAR and establishment of Division of Agricultural Education Though ICAR aimed to undertake, aid, promote and coordinate agricultural education in the country, however, it had a very limited role before 1966, as it had neither financial resources nor statutory authority to discharge this responsibility. In 1966 ICAR was reorganized and a full-fledged Division of Agricultural Education was established to coordinate and support the development of AUs. The various fellowship schemes for staff development and student welfare were initiated.