 Keywords: pearlmillet flour, pod borer, pigeonpea, dusting Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2379 Use of inverted harrow at flowering stage to control pod borer In north Solapur region of Solapur district pod borer (Heliothis armigera) is a major Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi  pest. To overcome this problem inverted harrowing is done at flowering to pod formation stage. The larvae that fall on the ground are smothered by load and killed. Keywords: inverted harrow, pod borer, smother Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Spraying of jaggery solution to control pod borer in pigeonpea Farmers of Malshiras tehsils and north region of Solapur district spray jaggery on pigeonpea to control pod borer (Heliothis armigera). One kg jaggery is dissolved in 100 litres water, which is sprayed. Jaggery attracts ants, which feed on the larvae of pod borer. Keywords: jaggery, pod borer, pigeonpea Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of cooked rice for control of pod borer in pigeonpea To control pod borer in pigeonpea, the farmers of Malshiras tehsil of Solapur district and rural area of Jamkhed tehsil of Ahmednagar keep cooked rice on a circular dish (the base of dish is attached to a peg like structure, which is inserted in the soil) to attract the birds. After eating the rice, birds watch the larvae and eat them. Keywords: cooked rice, pigeonpea, circular dish Director of Extension Education Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2368 Control of wild pigs in cereal and pulse fields Farmers of Kistagiri village of Mahaboobnagar district in Andhra Pradesh are using these practices to protect their crops against wild pig damage. Four corners of the cropped fields are collectively tied with red and white coloured cloths to repel the pigs. Tying of a pair of buffalo with bells around the neck during dusk time produce noise to scare the pigs. Bon fire during night hours create dark red flame which also repels the pigs. Keywords: wild pig, bon fire, bell sound, tying of coloured cloths Ms V Nagamma W/o Shri V Kendanna, Upeeri Kistagiri Tanda, Wanaparthy Mandal, Mahaboobnagar (Andhra Pradesh) 2303 Use of lime juice-smeared earthen pot for preventing wild animals in fields Farmers of Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra use the practice of smearing lime juice on the outer base of the earthen pot (pitcher) and this pot is put in inverted position with the help of a stick. Due to reflection of light, the wild animals do not enter the field and the damages are minimized. About 10-12 pots are used for 1 acre.