 TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 38 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 39 The high-resolution hyperspectral imagery of outdoor (field-scale) fields can be acquired using sensors attached to UAVs or drones. The UAV-borne hyperspectral data of the experimental fields in the ICAR-IARI research farm is shown in Figure 30. These high- resolution hyperspectral big data combined with various in-field biophysical and biochemical variables have opened opportunities to remotely measure these cropland traits. Further, this made the beginning of various data processing and analysis techniques using machine learning algorithms. The ML models readily explore the nonlinear relationship between the spectral reflectance values and target crop traits such as leaf area index, canopy content, chlorophyll content, dry biomass, etc. High accuracy in the retrieval of cropland traits from hyperspectral data includes majorly four ways, (i) parametric regression, (ii) nonparametric regression, (iii) inversion of RTMs, and (iv) hybrid or combined methods. Stepwise multiple linear regression (SMLR), partial least squares regression (PLSR), decision trees, artificial neural networks (ANNs), support vector regression (SVR), genetic algorithms, and Gaussian process regression (GPR) are some of the standard machine learning techniques used for crop variable estimation. The hyperspectral imagery having a large number of contiguous bands may lead to data redundancy and results in suboptimal performance in the ML models. To reduce redundancy and computational time, a suitable dimensionality reduction strategy is to be applied to hyperspectral data (Sahoo et al. 2023). (Source: Ang and Jasmine 2021) Figure 29: 3D cube representation for Big hyperspectral data Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report The high-resolution hyperspectral imagery of outdoor (field-scale) fields can be acquired using sensors attached to UAVs or drones. The UAV-borne hyperspectral data of the experimental fields in the ICAR-IARI research farm is shown in Figure 30. These high- resolution hyperspectral big data combined with various in-field biophysical and biochemical variables have opened opportunities to remotely measure these cropland traits. Further, this made the beginning of various data processing and analysis techniques using machine learning algorithms. The ML models readily explore the nonlinear relationship between the spectral reflectance values and target crop traits such as leaf area index, canopy content, chlorophyll content, dry biomass, etc. High accuracy in the retrieval of cropland traits from hyperspectral data includes majorly four ways, (i) parametric regression, (ii) nonparametric regression, (iii) inversion of RTMs, and (iv) hybrid or combined methods.