 The quantities of hybrid seed required should be roughly estimated on an annual basis in advance, depending upon the projected demand for the commercial hybrid under cultivation. It is desirable to maintain significant quantities of carry- over seed as an insurance against unforeseen seed crop losses (normally an excess of 20% over the demand is produced). Hybrid (A x R) seed production in Sorghum Production environment The area where the temperature during flowering ranges from 27-32°C is best suited for good seed production of sorghum. Night temperatures should not fall below 11°C for longer period since it affects the seed development. Flowering and seed development stages should not coincide with the rains, as the pollen loss and grain mold deteriorate seed quality. The fields where sorghum was not grown during the previous season should be selected. In addition, there should be no Johnson grass in the seed field or within isolation distance. The field should be well levelled and drained. The saline, alkaline or very lighter soils are not suitable. Uniform and levelled piece of land with good drainage should be selected. The pH should be around 5.5–8.5, good irrigation facilities are essential for sorghum seed crop. Selection of season Sorghum seed production is mostly undertaken during rainy (kharif) season in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat. In the other sorghum growing areas, it is taken in winter (rabi) or summer season. Seed produced in seasons other than kharif have good germination and vigour. During kharif, problems due to grain mold arise frequently. The savings should be carried out before the end of June and September in kharif and rabi seasons respectively. Early sowing culminates shoot fly attack and seed crop passes through its life cycle at the most optimum environmental condition for crop growth and seed development. The seed of commercial hybrids is produced during rabi and summer seasons both by public and private seed agencies and marketed in summer season itself. However, seed for rabi has to be stored till the next rabi. Consequently, there is some difficulty in the availability of seed for rabi leading to stagnant production of rabi sorghum. The seed production in rabi is predominantly concentrated in Andhra Pradesh and adjacent part of Karnataka due to favourable ecological conditions. Sowing method Seed should be placed at 3-4 cm depth. Maintenance of male sterile line (A-line) involves sowing of two parents, i.e. A-line (male sterile) and B-line (male fertile, non-pollen restores). Similarly, certified seed production of hybrids includes male sterile A-line and fertility restorer R-line. The border rows (4-6) should be sown with male line all round the seed production plot. To facilitate frequent rouging operation, a spacing of 60 cm (row to row) and 15-20 cm (plant to plant) is advisable.