 Skin grafting techniques in animals. Unit 2 : Anaesthesia History and instrumentation. Pre-anaesthetic considerations of patient. Selection of various anaesthetic and pre-anaesthetic agents and their effects on different body organs. Inhalant and non- inhalant anaesthetic agents including dissociative, neurolept and balanced anaesthesia and their administration in small and large animals. Monitoring of patient during anaesthesia. Anaesthetic emergencies and their management. Muscle relaxants. Local anaesthetic agents. Local and regional anaesthetic procedures. Anaesthesia for special surgical procedures and special disease conditions. Electronarcosis. Hypothermia. Acupuncture analgesia. Anaethesia and methods of capture of zoo animals. Therapeutic usage of local anaesthetic agents and techniques. Methods of artificial ventilation. Unit 3 : Radiology Production and quality of X-rays; exposure factors and formulation of technique chart. Basics of radiation physics. Interaction of particulate and non-particulate radiations with matter. Radiographic artifacts and their prevention. Radiographic quality and factors affecting it. Radiographic features of diseases of musculo-skeletal, digestive, urogenital, cardiovascular, respiratory and lymphatic system of small and large animals. Radiation hazards. Radiation biology including its mechanism of action and effects on various organ systems. Radiation protection. Radiological contrast agents and common contrast radiographic procedures. Principles of radiotherapy and physiotherapy. Invasive and non-invasive imaging modalities viz. echocardiography, computed tomography, scintigraphy, magnetic resonance imaging, ultrasonography and subtraction angiography. Unit 4 : Orthopaedics and Lameness Physiological and biochemical considerations of bone. Osteogenesis and mineralization of bone. Bone research techniques. Circulation of long bones. Biomechanics of fractures. Etiology, classification and healing of fracture; factors affecting fracture healing. Complications of fractures and their management. Methods of internal and external fixations of fracture and factors governing selection of fixation methods. Effect of various internal fixation methods on physiology and blood circulation of bone. Bone grafts. Metallic and non-metallic materials in bone surgery and their biological behaviour. Surgical affection of vertebral column. Etiology, pathophysiology, diagnosis and treatment of affections of bones and joints. Technique of arthroscopy. Lameness and allied surgical conditions of fore and hind limbs. Various foot diseases. Affections of tendons, ligaments and their management. Relationship between conformation of the limbs, foot and its axis to soundness.