 This was irrevocably proved during the present COVID19 pandemic, wherein agriculture was the only sector that showed positive growth among the several contributors to India’s GDP. This further proved that the Mahatma was correct in his wisdom of rural economy. Agriculture provides the largest source of livelihood in India and remains a key driver of national economic growth and our country has substantially progressed in improving the food as well as nutritional security in the past few decades. Horticulture has been a major contributor surpassing the agriculture production since 2012. This sector is considered as a key driver of economic growth as it is gradually taking shape of an organized industry with key linkages to seed business, value addition and export, leading to Job-Full growth. Horticulture provides not only diversification but also contributes towards food, nutrition and economic security. Rise in production of horticultural crops both by small and marginal farmers who constitute up to 85% of farming population, has brought prosperity especially in rural India. ICAR has contributed immensely over the last five decades towards developing varieties and technologies to boost incomes of horticultural farmers throughout the country. The main research agenda of horticultural crop institutes has been to enhance the productivity of horticultural crops by developing high yielding varieties of fruit, vegetables, spices, ornamentals and medicinal and aromatic plants along with state-of-the-art production technologies. To combat the emerging challenges in horticulture sector, the emphasis was laid on breeding varieties for biotic and abiotic stresses, breeding F1 hybrids, integrated modules for pest, nutrient and water management, improved post-harvest management practices and developing value added products. Emphasis was laid on frontier research areas like hi-tech horticulture, precision farming, information technology, biotechnological interventions to increase yields, protect crops from insect pests, diseases and viruses, and extension of shelf life of crop produce. Many institutes dealing with horticultural crops viz. IIHR, CISH, CITH, CIAH, IIVR, CTCRI, CPCRI, IISR and NRCs working on various horticultural crops like banana, grapes, pomegranate, 15 onion, garlic, ginger, turmeric, cardamom, black pepper etc. have contributed immensely in their respective domains. All horticultural crop institutes have also been involved in linking their research outputs with the upliftment of rural livelihoods and providing nutritional security. Few significant accomplishments and success stories of horticultural crops that help to realize the dreams of Mahatma Gandhi on rural livelihood and nutritional security are described in this chapter. 2. Gandhiji’s Ideas about Rural Livelihood and Nutritional Security 2.1. Gandhiji’s Vision on Rural Economy Mahatma Gandhi was vocal about the rural economy and rural industries.