69 μmol Trolox/g fresh weight) at harvest maturity stage (Table 4 and 5). Nursery raising technique The bitter gourd seed has hard seed coat and it requires soaking for 24 h before sowing for better germination. The seedlings can also be raised under polyhose or poly-tunnel structure with the help of plastic Pusa Rasdar: New variety of bitter gourd suitable for protected cultivation Pusa Rasdar is first open pollinated variety of bitter gourd suitable for growing in insect-proof net house during spring summer (February-June) and kharif (July- November) and under polyhouse during winter season (November-March). It is non-parthenocarpic, predominately gynoecious and produces 1-2 lateral branches. It is extra early (43-47 days for first fruit harvest) variety suitable for cultivation under protected condition throughout the year. It requires hand pollination when grown under protected conditions. Fruits are juicy with anti-diabetic properties like saponin (40-45 µg/g) and charantin (35-40 µg/g) and can be used as health drinks. The average fruit weight is 110 g with average yield of 4.7 q/100 sqm insect proof net-house and 4.0 q/100 sqm polyhouse. It has been released and notified by the Central Sub-Committee on Crop Standards, Notification and Release of Varieties for Horticultural Crops for cultivation in National Capital Region of Delhi and its adjoining states. Research T K Behera*, A D Munshi and A K Singh portrays having cell size of 1.1/2”. The soilless media like cocopeat, vermiculite and perlite are used in 3:1:1 ratio for raising seedlings. One seed is sown in each cell. The seedlings are ready for transplanting after 20-25 days in winter season and 18-20 days in summer season. The farmers can grow the crop under net-house through direct seeding during summer season. Transplanting and fertigation The optimum temperature for better plant growth, flowering and fruiting is 20 to 300C. It can be grown during winter season under polyhouse conditions by maintaining the required temperature. It can tolerate acidic soils but most suitable pH is 5.5 to 6.8. Well drained soil is necessary for its cultivation. It can be planted at a spacing of 20-30 cm between plants and 50 cm between rows on raised beds along with drip irrigation system under protected condition. The transplanting/seeding needs to be carried out towards 2nd to last week of August under net-house and winter crop can be transplanted during November under polyhouse structure. Fertigation with 25:17:26 NPK is the best for better crop growth and yield of quality fruits. The frequency of irrigation is largely dependent on soil type and weather conditions. In addition to NPK, the micronutrients are also required for better fruit quality and higher yields. Training and pruning Training and pruning in bitter gourd crops create conditions for maximum production of high-quality fruits by establishing and maintaining plant architecture.