 Cruciferous and solanaceous vegetables, water spinach, velvet bean, winged bean, Perkia roxburghii, broad bean and common vegetables, sweet potato, potato, underexploited Vegetables. November–December 2023 47 Kharif chilli – field view at CHF, CAU Pasighat Kharif Onion – field view at CHF, CAU Pasighat which resulted in extreme hikes in the price of onion in the local market. Keeping in view of facts, initiative was taken for proper production aspects, optimum time for sowing transplanting of Kharif onion, development of technology and specific research works were done. The research team tried to put in extensive efforts to popularize the production technologies for Kharif onion and its proper implementation among the farmers of the region and have explored the possibility of cultivation of Kharif onion. Findings of the cultivation of Kharif onion at CHF,CAU, Pasighat, Arunachal Pradesh showed that if the transplanting of onion is done during April and harvesting of bulb during July and the yield of Kharif onion may go up to 200-250 q/ha in complete rained condition with the production cost of ` 80,000/ha. The potential for growing Kharif onion in various pockets of the region is enormous. Strategies to be adopted for climate-resilient vegetable crops Legume vegetables and tuber crops have been found suitable for soil and water conservation. Legume vegetables such as Indian bean, lima bean, velvet bean, winged bean grown during the rainy season have deep root systems with good soil binding properties with nitrogen fixation. Tuber crops like sweet potato, colocasia, tapioca have good surface cover protecting the soil from water erosion. These crops are highly suitable for climate- resilient agriculture. Screening of vegetable crops suitable for different cropping systems In valleys, the farmers mainly follow paddy-vegetables (French bean/ tomato/ capsicum/ pea/ potato, etc.) cropping system. However, under mid-hills, they grow commercial crops like ginger and turmeric and vegetables as pure crops. However, under Jhum land, the crops are grown in mixed cropping with rice, maize, tuber crops (sweet potato, colocasia, yam, tapioca) and seasonal vegetables (chilli, brinjal, okra, cowpea, rice bean etc.). Under the hilly ecosystem, among the warm season vegetable crops, the cultivation of tomato is highly profitable, followed by brinjal and bottle gourd. Similarly, the highest yield per hectare in cool-season crops has been recorded from cabbage. However, the highest input- output ratio is found in Indian bean, followed by cabbage and broccoli. Tomato–cabbage cropping system is found to be most economical, followed by brinjal–cabbage (solanaceous–crucifer vegetable-based cropping system). Under legume–cucurbits systems, Indian bean–bottle gourd and Indian bean–cucumber cropping systems are highly profitable. Further, vegetable crops are the most economical in integrated farming system with BC ratio of 2.25 over other components.