 (2000) 226 Kachnar - an antidite to snake poison Stembark, root, leaf, flower, seed and gum of kachnar (Bauhinia variegata ) are the useful parts containing mainly tannins and glucose. Stem bark acts as alterative, tonic, astringent and cures cough, bleeding piles, hematuria and manorrhagia, malaria and primarily act as antidote to snake poison. Root is used as carminative and flower laxative and cures sore throat. Parabia et al. (2000) 227 Medicinal uses of Coriandrum sativum Leaf, fruit, seed and plant kottmir (Coriandrum sativum) contain coriantrol, oxalic acid, calcium, vitamin C, carotene, essential oil, tannin, malic acid and ash which are used as aromatic, stimulant, carminative, stomachic, antibilious, refrigerant, diuretic, aphrodisiac, correction of bad breathe, dyspepsia, flatulence, vomiting, indigestion, sore throat, bilious complaints. Parabia et al. (2000) 222 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 228 Medicinal use of Barleria cristata Plant, leaf and root of barleria cristata are the important parts contains apigenin and naringenin. Leaf and root are used to reduce swellings, cures cough. Root decoction cures rheumatism. Plant acts against snake bite. Parabia et al. (2000) 229 Cultivation of Seabuckthorn (Hippophae) Seabuckthorn is widely distributed in an altitudinal range of 700 m to 5500 m and above, owing to enormous uses of its fruits in curing several ailments including skin tumor,digestive disorders and respiratory ailments, foot and mouth disease in cattle, besides it is used in agro forestry practices. Also it is major source of fuelwood, fodder for goats and cattle, fencing to protect fruit trees/nurseries/orchards, maintenance of irrigation channels apart from soil conservation, improving fertility, quality timber, useful for newly opened areas and subsidiary food items, medicinal products and alcoholic preparations.Hence, the development of seabuckthorn will help in vegetation rehabilitation,ecological sustenance and economic gains to local farmers (High hills, river beds, valleys,dry and cold mountain areas of Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 230 Medicinal importance of deku sindoor Only root is essential part, heals swelling of legs, cholera, diarrohea and leaf paste heals yoke gall. Parabia et al. (2000) 231 Ethno medical use of physic nut or fever nut The useful parts of katkarnja (Caesalpinia bondue ) are seed, root, stem bark and leaf that contain bonducine, non alkaloid bitter principles and fatty oils. Seed, root and bark are used as antiperiodic antispasmodic antihelmenthic and febrifuge and cures intermittent fevers, asthma and colic. Parabia et al. (2000) 232 Medicinal uses of Embelia ribes Leaf, rootbark and fruit of Baberang (Embelia ribes) contain emblic acid, quercitol, christembine, resinoid, volatile oil are used in sore throat, infusion of root, cough and diarrhoea. Parabia et al. (2000) 233 Medicinal uses of Enicostemma hyssopifolium, E.