 Therefore, under assured irrigation facilities dhaincha green manure crop can be sown in April-May and in rainfed areas this can be grown with the onset of monsoon. Dhaincha crop must be plough down in the soil with the help of Rotavator implement at optimum stage (before flowering stage) with optimum moisture conditions. 60 kg seed /ha should be used for this purpose. Availability of quality Seed Seed is the most important critical input in crop production, therefore, availability of quality hybrid/improved variety certified seed at right time at local level and at genuine rate is the prime need of the time. For this farmer may contact and purchased quality seed from their nearby KVKs, Agricultural Research Stations, SAUs, different ICAR Institutes and cooperative societies. Sometimes farmers approach in a group after onset of monsoon and under such conditions availability of seed is a big issue, therefore farmers must purchase quality seed well in time from any above reliable source. If purchased seed is already treated then ok, otherwise it must be treated as per recommendation of FIR System before sowing. yy To increase the WUE in canal area, at this time land should be levelled with Laser Land Leveller. yy Construct Water Farm Pond or Plastic based water pond, this is the appropriate time, so that excessive rainwater during first monsoon rain can be collected and harvested and it can be used for life saving irrigation on different critical stages during deficit rainfall conditions. By harvesting of excessive rainwater during rainy season, field crops can be protected from water logging. yy For sustainable farming prepare proper work plan for organic farming in next kharif season and for this nearby KVK may help you in providing proper advisory and guidance. 45 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Adopt appropriate IFS Models as per availability of different resources, infrastructure, and facilities on their farm. Cotton Sowing can be done in between First week of May to Third week of May, as per irrigation water availability. Seed Rate & Spacing: Desi Cotton-15-16 kg/ha (60x25 Cm), American Cotton- 12-16 kg/ha (67.5x30 Cm) and in Bt Cotton-1.5 Kg/ha (108x60 Cm) Manure & Fertilizers: Apply 8-10 ton well decomposed FYM & it should be mixed properly in the soil before sowing. Apply chemical fertilizers as per soil testing report, if soil testing report is not available than on an average apply 100-120 kg N in two to three split doses and 30-40 kg P at the time of sowing. Improved Varieties: Desi Cotton: RG-8, RG-18 American Cotton: RST-9, RS-2013, RS-810, H-8, DCH-32, Bikaneri Narma& Ganganagar Ageti etc. Bt Cotton: MRCH-6304, MRCH-6025, PCH-9605, RCH-314, RCH-134 etc. Plant protection: yy To control leaf sucking pest & Leaf Curl Virus disease, seed should be treated with 4 g Thiomethaxom 70 WS/kg seed before sowing.