, neighborhood stores, convenience stores, and modern corporate retailers) represents an opportunity for farmers to engage in vertical coordination (Reardon et al., 2009). Given these recent developments, fruits and vegetables, considered high-value crops, have attracted significant attention from stakeholders along the respective value chains, especially from private contracting firms (Mishra et al., 2018; Mishra, Kumar, and Joshi, 2021). Although the demand for fruits and vegetables is robust in developing and emerging economies, urban consumers often fail to obtain the recommended amounts in their diets. It has been argued that this results from inadequate storage and transportation infrastructure (Joshi et al., 2004; Pingali, 2015) and the high transaction costs of linking producers to markets. Poor coordination in the value chains for fruits and vegetables typically results in high spoilage rates (Gandhi and Namboodri, 2005). Similarly, the high number of intermediaries along marketing channels has been shown to affect the price farmers receive and their marketing channel choices (Gupta and Rathode, 1998; Kopp and Brümmer, 2017). This is illustrated by the gap between prices that (mainly urban) consumers pay and the prices that farmers receive, a gap that is significantly larger when contractors are involved in the supply chain, thus reflecting the impact of marketing channel choices. However, more direct marketing arrangements were found to be prevented by poor institutional quality, such as the lack of effective enforceability of contract and property rights (Obi et al., 2012). Overall, marketing practices for fruits and vegetables are considered inefficient. Therefore, governments have been motivated to encourage direct-marketing models to improve the sector’s efficiency, foster more competitive pricing, increase local consumption, and boost exports (Dastagiri et al., 2013). It is seldom evaluated whether those targets are achieved and – if they are – which factors affect their success. The constraints on marketing arrangements of fruits and vegetables follow a similar pattern. Both are bulky and perishable and exhibit variable production seasons. These aspects create challenges for farmers when handling and transporting their products to the markets, which result in higher costs and post-harvest losses (Villacis et al., 2022a). In response, many governments have introduced A.H. Villacis et al. Economic Analysis and Policy 81 (2024) 1308–1321 1311 government-sponsored outlets as a new marketing channel in addition to the established direct marketing channels, local traders and intermediaries, regional wholesalers, and pre-harvest contractors. Pre-harvest contractors assume most of the production risks asso­ ciated with weather, pests, and diseases and earn profits by bundling and selling downstream in the supply chain (Mysore and Kruijssen, 2008).