 DG, ICAR concluded that the further comments / suggestions regarding the restructuring may be communicated to the Education Division, ICAR within 15 days. The National Core Group, with the opted members if necessary, would revisit the recommendations based on the suggestions given by the Vice Chancellors in the Conference and also, received in another 15 days. The revised document may be finalized within two months so that the revised Post-Graduate curricula and syllabi may be implemented from the ensuing academic session. Action: All VCs / ADG (EQR) Agenda 4: Issues in the management of Plant Genetic Resources The agenda was presented by the NBPGR. The issues like sharing Bioresources with foreign agencies, registration of extant notified varieties and farmers varieties, designation of Indian germplasm of crops of Annex I for exchange under the International Treaty for Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture (ITPGRFA), Feed back information on utilization of Plant Genetic Resources, Import of trait specific germplasm, Collaboration and License Agreement between SAUs and Private Companies for R & D to Develop Varieties/ Hybrids were detailed for the benefit of the AUs. It was pointed out that the process of registration (Protection) of Extant- notified and new varieties with the PPV&FR Authority has been facilitated by NBPGR. Most of the AUs have designated Nodal Officers for preparation and submission of application of notified varieties to PPV& FRA through NBPGR. A consultation meeting of all Nodal Officers was conducted by NBPGR in May 2008, but the response from some of the AUs was poor. It was recommended that the process needs to be expedited for submission of application of all extant notified varieties released during last 15 years pertaining to 14 crops notified by Authority. It was suggested that registration of Farmers varieties also needs to be facilitated by Nodal Officers of AUs, who should facilitate submission of application of Farmers / Farmer organizations by helping them with forms and registration process, The KVKs can also play an important role in the regard. It was suggested that the AUs may develop R&D collaborations with Indian privates companies for production of 5 varieties/ hybrids of different crops. The AUs should however, develop MOUs having saving clauses and also as per the ICAR Guideline on IP Management and Technology Transfer which are available on the website of ICAR (www.icar.org). Action: All VCs / Director NBPGR Agenda 5: Performance Assessment of Agricultural Universities Director, NAARM presented the agenda. He informed that a National Brainstorming Workshop on Performance Assessment of Agricultural Universities was organized by the NAARM on September 5-6, 2008 which was attended by the 28 Delegates from 19 institutions.