 Facilities and infrastructure existing at the cluster level (%) in 2017. 3.5. Preparation and Use of Bio-Inputs Although facilities exist at the cluster level, many clusters are not able to use these facilities to produce organic inputs or to use these organic inputs in cultivation. Table 1 depicts the status of production of organic inputs and their use at the cluster level. In general, organic inputs production was less compared to the facilities available at the cluster level. Except for the production of compost and green manure, the production of other organic inputs was signiﬁcantly lower in many clusters. Less than 15 percent of the clusters produce organic seed, traditional inputs such as Panchamruth (Panchamrita (ﬁve Amritas in Sanskrit) is a mixture of ﬁve foods used in Hindu worship: honey, liquid jaggery, cow milk, yoghurt and ghee), Panchagavya, (Panchagavya, an organic product, has the potential to play the role of promoting growth and providing immunity in the plant system. Panchagavya consists of nine products: cow dung, cow urine, milk, curd, jaggery, ghee, banana, tender coconut and water. When suitably mixed and used, these have miraculous effects), Beejamruth (Bijamrita/beejamrutha is a treatment used for seeds, seedlings or any planting material. Bijamrita effectively protects young roots from fungus and soil-borne and seed-borne diseases that commonly affect plants after the monsoon period), bio-pesticides and bio-fertilizers. However, one interesting ﬁnding is that the production of organic inputs at the cluster level was signiﬁcantly higher in clusters located in less-developed states and managed by NGO-RCs than their counterparts. Although many clusters had infrastructure and facilities to prepare organic inputs, only a few produced them. The low production of organic inputs was mainly due to their highly labor-intensive nature against the backdrop of the growing labor shortage and increasing wage rates across India. Plants and trees used in the preparation of bio-pesticides and other plant-based inputs such as phyretrins, rotenone, nicotine and Azadirachtin derived from species of Tanacetum, Sustainability 2022, 14, 15057 10 of 22 Derris (leguminous herb), Nicotiana (tobacco-related) and Azadirachta (neem) have been diminished and neglected over the years. It may take a long time to regrow them. The farmers were aware of the risks involved and adopted the diversiﬁcation strat- egy. Most of the farmers practiced both conventional and organic agriculture in different plots/parcels of land. Commercial crops such as chilies and cotton were mainly grown conventionally using chemical pesticides and fertilizers, while pulses, millets and oilseeds requiring fewer inputs were grown organically. Commercial and vegetable crops were input-intensive and largely depended on irrigation, while pulses, millets and oilseeds were grown under rainfed conditions with a lower use of inputs.