 Students undergoing training at IIFPT, Thanjavur W ith an aim to reduce academic inbreeding in agricultural education by encouraging mobility amongst students to go for study outside their home states, infuse merit and encourage the talent and national integration and promote uniform examination standards across the AUs, Council made an arrangement with Agricultural Universities to set aside 15% of their seats for Bachelor’s and 25% seats for Master’s degree programmes to be filled through All India Entrance Examinations. Accordingly, ICAR conducts two All India Entrance Examinations for Admission (AIEEA)-one for Bachelor’s degree and another for Master’s degree programme, every year. For the ICAR-Deemed-to-be-Universities such as IARI, IVRI, NDRI and CIFE, 100% seats are filled through the above examinations. The programme started in the year 1996-97, and so far, Agricultural Education Division has conducted 24 All India Entrance Examinations for Admission (AIEEA) to various UG and PG Degree programmes. Besides these, since 2015-16 ICAR has been conducting centralized admission to 25% seats of Ph.D. degree programmes at AUs under the ICAR-AU system through AICE-JRF/SRF (PGS), presently renamed as AICE-JRF/SRF (Ph.D.) examination. Since 2019, these examinations are being conducted in LAN-based CBT mode by the National Testing Agency (NTA), an autonomous premier testing organization under the aegis of Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Human Resource Development, Govt. of India. National Testing Agency (NTA) To assess competence of candidates for admissions and recruitment has always been a challenge in terms of matching with research based international standards, efficiency, transparency and error free delivery. The NTA (www.nta.ac.in) has been established as a premier, specialist, autonomous and self-sustained testing organization under Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Human Resource Development, Govt. of India to conduct entrance examinations for admission/fellowship in higher educational institutions. All India Entrance Examinations for Admission (AIEEA) 3 “Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world.” –Nelson Mandela 14 Landscape of Higher Agricultural Education in India 15 Mission To improve equity and quality in education by administering research-based valid, reliable, efficient, transparent, fair and international level assessments with the best subject matter experts, psychometricians and IT delivery & security professionals to ensure that the current gaps in existing assessment systems are properly identified and bridged. Core Values NTA strongly believes in quality, efficiency, effectiveness, equity and security of assessments. To realize this, NTA will create a system that will promote teaching (by teachers), learning (by students) and assessment (by parents and institutions). To practice these values, NTA will constantly engage with its stakeholders, viz.