 l The bioactive ingredients in Cadalmin® ATe stimulate thyroid releasing hormone and increase the activity of selenodeiodi- nase to produce metabolically active triiodothyronine, thereby hindering the occurrence of the hypothyroid disorder. l The efficacy of the product was compared with that of a standard drug (Levothy- roxin®) through animal test models. l It has no side effects as proved from the preclinical and acute/long-term chronic toxicity studies. l Unique biochemical engineering techniques are adopted which assure higher shelf-life. l Plant-based capsules containing 350 mg of purified and concentrated active ingredients are packed to meet the dietary needs of vegetarians. Commercialization and availability l This patented technology of ICAR-CMFRI, Kochi was commercialized in 2018 to the VLCC (Vandana Luthra Curls and Curves) Well Science Limited (a leading Indian MNC in wellness) at Gurgaon, India. l The product is marketed as Antihypothy- roid Extract (ATe). 4. Cadalmin® ATe – Antihypothyroid Nutraceutical Compiled by: Kajal Chakraborty, P. Vijayagopal and Shinoj Parappurathu Further Information: Director, ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Kochi, Kerala. Phone: +91-484-2394798 Email: director.cmfri@icar.gov.in; Website: www.cmfri.org.in Sargassum wightii Turbinaria ornata Turbinaria conoides Kappaphycus alvarezii 7 Cadalmin® AHe About the product l Cadalmin® AHe is an anti-hypertensive nutraceutical; combats pathophysiologies related to hypertension. l Selected brown seaweed, viz., Sargassum wightii was used to isolate 100% natural marine bioactive ingredients for developing the product. l The bioactive ingredients in Cadalmin® AHe competitively inhibit the angiotensin- converting enzyme that converts angiotensin I to angiotensin II. Decreased production of angiotensin II, lowers blood pressure and prevents remodeling of smooth muscle and cardiac myocytes. l Modulates production of serum level of oxidative stress marker nitric oxide and lipid peroxidase. l The efficacy of the product was compared with that of a standard drug (Telmisartan®) through animal test models. l Acute/long-term chronic toxicity and preclinical studies revealed no side effects for the product. l Unique biochemical engineering techniques are adopted to ensure higher shelf-life. l The active ingredients are purified and concentrated and packed in plant-based capsules to meet the dietary needs of vegetarians. Each capsule contains 350 mg of active ingredients. Commercialization and availability l The patented technology of ICAR-CMFRI, Kochi was licenced to the Pioneer Phar- maceuticals Limited (a Pharmaceutical Company), Kochi, Kerala, during 2020. l The product is marketed as Antihyperten- sive Extract (AHe). 5. Cadalmin® AHe – Antihypertensive Nutraceutical Compiled by: Kajal Chakraborty, P. Vijayagopal and Shinoj Parappurathu Further Information: Director, ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Kochi, Kerala.