 Proper adoption of post- harvest protocols, grading, packaging, and transport in suitable containers substantially reduced post-harvest losses (5-10%), while increasing shelf life and fruit quality. These interventions led the tribal farmers to enhance their income by 25-30%. Tribal growers could realize higher value for their produce with a net profit of Rs. 40,000/- from one-acre mango cultivation. 3.2. Vegetable crops 3.2.1. Arka Rakshak, F1 Hybrid of tomato Bumper pesticide free production of Arka Rakshak production in Karnataka and NE states The production potential of this crop is generally challenged by Tomato Leaf Curl Disease (ToLCD) transmitted by white fly (Bemisia tabaci), bacterial wilt (Ralstonia solanacearum) and early blight. At times, these diseases are capable to incur economic yield losses up to 70-100%. To address this major problem, ICAR has bred a triple-disease (ToLCV + BW + EB) resistant tomato F1 hybrid, Arka Rakshak. The hybrid has enormous yield potential (19 kg/plant; potential yield of 100 t ha-1). The fruits are firm, medium in size (75-80 g) with attractive deep red in colour. Besides, the excellent keeping quality (15-20 days) makes it an unmatchable choice for long distance markets. This hybrid has been adopted in 26 states across the country covering an estimated area of 7,720 hectares. Many farmers have recorded a crop yield of 19 kg per plant (100 t ha-1) through adoption of precision farming methods and have even realized a net profit of Rs. 20 lakhs per acre. On an average tomato grower in the country have realized a net profit of Rs. 3 to 5 lakhs per acre. Achievements in Horticulture in Independent India 127 3.2.2. Improved varieties of potato ICAR-CPRI has released 66 potato varieties for different states/ regions, which presently cover 80-85% of the total potato production of the country and successfully adapted a temperate crop to its present form of sub-tropicalization. Four varieties, viz. Kufri Jyoti, Kufri Bahar, Kufri Pukhraj, and Kufri Chipsona 1 together contribute around 75% of total area under potato in the country. Over the years the variety yields increased from 20-25 t ha-1 (Kufri Jyoti, Kufri Jeevan of 1960’s) to 35-40 t ha-1 in recent varieties along with special traits like resistance to diseases and pests (Kufri Sahayadri is highly resistant to potato cyst nematode and Kufri Karan resistant to late blight, viruses: PALCV, PVY, PVX, PLRV, PVA, PVM & potato cyst nematode), abiotic stresses (Kufri Thar-3 which is drought tolerant: 20% water saving) and biofortification (Kufri Manik is rich in micronutrients like Fe and Zn along with s and carotenoids). Aeroponic multiplication of potato seed tubers Traditional seed production system has the limitation of repeated exposure of initial disease-free seed stocks to soil and insect pests which results in accumulation of pathogens accompanied by deterioration in quality of produce by the time it reaches the end user.