 A study conducted in Alwar district of Rajasthan revealed a positive relationship between cooperatives and employment generation, which shows the importance of the organisation of dairy sectors in voluntary cooperatives to generate better income prospects. Since a greater shift towards consumption of processed dairy products has been observed in the last decade, it paves the way for the enlargement of the milk-food processing markets. Due to the presence of varieties of foods developed by the processing of milk, there is a greater scope for establishing product-specific enterprises. Thus, more benefits may be accrued in the form of budding entrepreneurship as well as generating employment for the rural population in general and Current milk production scenario of the nations involved in G20 organization. Indian Farming 58 June 2023 rural women in particular. Thus, the ultimate goal of poverty alleviation and empowerment may be achieved. However, a major impediment to this process lies in the fact that due to the unorganised nature of dairy sector, farmers fail to fetch appropriate prices for their products and hence always settle the negotiations at a lesser price. Along with this, among the various challenges faced by the dairy sector in India, a major constraint arises from the fact that a large number of dairy holdings are scattered among a huge proportion of small dairy farmers which is coupled with the unorganised nature of these dairy undertakings. This leads to various challenges like fragmented supply chain, price sensitivity, unorganised nature, data deficiency, poor returns and competition from alternatives. The laggard and sceptical behaviour of small dairy farmers coupled with the financial crisis makes them more hesitant to undertake new technologies to enhance dairy production efficiency. Moreover, due to smallholding of dairy animals, it is impractical and non-feasible to invest in high-cost technologies. Also, for small and marginal farmers, it is difficult to get bank loans for animals. These factors gravely affect production, productivity as well as quality due to lack of financing. Compromise in quality thereby leads to fetching of lower prices creating a vicious cycle of low income due to losses followed by the inability to bring changes to dairy enterprises in terms of new technologies. This drooping of milk quality affects the milk export scenario of India despite of highest milk production in the world. Moreover, environmental factors and climate change affect livestock health as well as the production of milk. Also changing climate creates a shortage of feed and fodder. Moreover, there is a lack of efficiency in handling milk in small-scale dairy farming which again affects the quality of milk production.