 The species is found in forests throughout Central America where it has apparently been cultivated since ancient times. It was introduced long ago throughout tropical America and the West Indies, the Fig. 3. View of sapota A & B 294 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Bahamas, Bermuda, the Florida Keys and the southern part of the Florida mainland. Early in colonial times, it was carried to the Philippines and later was adopted everywhere in the Old World tropics. It reached Ceylon in 1802. Cultivation is most extensive in coastal India (Maharastra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Madras and Bengal States), where plantations are estimated to cover 4,942 acres (2,000 ha), while Mexico has 3,733.5 acres (1,511 ha) devoted to the production of fruit (mainly in the states of Campeche and Veracruz ) and 8,192 acres ( 4,000 ha ) primarily for extraction of Chicle as well as many dooryard and wild trees. Commercial plantings prosper in Sri Lanka, the Philippines , the interior valleys of Palestine, as well as in various countries of South and Central America, including Venezuela and Guatemala. Experimenters :Dr F. R. Sheriff, Director of Extension Education, Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Madhavaram Milk Colony Post, Chennai (Tamil Nadu) 600 051, Dr S .R. Srinivasan, Professor and Head, and Dr S. Thilagar, Professor and Head, Department of Clinics, Madras Veterinary College, Chennai (Tamil Nadu) 600 007 METHODOLOGY Location The experiment was conducted in the Department of Clinics, Madras Veterinary College, Chennai to study the use of jackfruit leaf and sapota fruit in controlling diarrhoea in cattle. Experiment The diarrhoeic animals (cattle, calf and goat) were subjected to a routine physical and laboratory examination to recognize other signs of illness and eliminate the cases that require treatment other than astringents and intra-venous fluids, wherever necessary. The unripe sapota fruit was smashed with 15 – 30 g salt on a banana leaf and administered orally. Jackfruit tree leaves were collected, shade dried and powdered for oral administration with jaggary . The t reatment schedule was followed for 3 days with oral administration once a day. Blood samples were collected before treatment and on day 3 after the treatment for hemotobio chemical estimation. Sapota fruit as jackfruit leaves were given to calves (n=6) @ 30–60 g/calf and to adults cattle @ 100–150 g each. The doses administered are indicated below. Dose in g Sapota Jackfruit l eaves: Calves (n-6) 30–60 30–60 Adult cattle (n=18) 100–150 100–150 Clinical signs. Duration of illness, feed intake, temperature and consistency of dung Laboratory studies: Leucogram (TC and DC), serum biochemistry (Na, K, and Cl), and culture of dung. The clinical materials were collected from cases of cattle before and after treatment, wherever feasible . Thus laboratory values for leucogram are available for 14 animals each of 295 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY A. Sapota tree B.