 A thorough study is necessary to determine the groundwater aquifer’s depth to understand the well’s depth clearly. The amount of water required will be determined by the crop planted, the land size, the amount of rain that falls in the area, the soil type, and solar irradiation. An IoT-enabled portable solar-powered water pump was devised and built by Ramli et al. [51]. An IoT intelligent irrigation system is designed to monitor the environment and remotely operate the pump. The created solar-powered water pump has reduced operating expenses and saved electricity. Okomba et al. [52] used humidity sen- sors strategically in the soil to track moisture levels and provide accurate irrigation control. Thanks to IoT integration, the system can automati- cally control the pump using pre-established settings. The system automatically modifies irrigation operations by reducing manual involvement and increasing overall efficiency based on sensor data analysis, including humidity levels and solar panel activity. In their study of the usage of UAVs in a variety of scenarios, such as irrigation, fertilization, pesticide use, weed management, plant growth monitoring, crop disease management, and field-level phenotyping, Boursianis et al. [53] present the importance of UAV technology in smart agriculture. IoT and uncrewed aerial vehicles are two of the most significant technolo- gies that change conventional farming methods and open new intelli- gence avenues in precision agriculture. Song et al. [54] built the IoT as its central component and combined sensor, actuator, and cloud plat- form technologies to create an intelligent greenhouse control system. Sensors collect data about environmental factors like light, humidity, and temperature. Additionally, it is transferred to the cloud platform for analysis and storage. According to the experimental results, an intelli- gent agricultural greenhouse’s cloud control system can efficiently monitor the greenhouse’s environment, maximize resource and energy efficiency, and assist farmers in managing the greenhouse quickly and easily. Most of the studies mentioned above do not include design that considers farmer problems like unawareness and non-familiarity with renewable sources of energy, which have created a blindfold for Indian farmers for a long time. Due to this, there needs to be more knowledge about water requirements, pump selection, solar panel selection, and irrigation processes in a particular area. This is the prime reason for irrigation failure and high-cost expenditure for farmers. Also, the irri- gation process is inefficient due to inconsistent power and water supply across different regions of India. Based on these problems, the main objectives and novelties of this study are: • To ask a questionnaire about the problems farmers face in irrigation. • To design and implement an automated IoT-based system for the irrigation process.