 About 4–5 unripe sapota (Achras zapota) fruits are crushed with one teaspoonful of common salt. This mixture is placed on a banana leaf and fed to the cattle to stop diarrhoea. Another practice to stop diarrhoea is the use of jackfruit (Atrocarpus heterophyllus) leaves instead of sapota fruits. For four doses, the cost of sapota is Rs 4 and salt is Re 1. Name and address of the discloser :Ms. Saroja Bala Manna, Bahichard, Naikuri, Midnapore (West Bengal) 721 627 Location of use of the ITK :Bahichard, Naikuri, Midnapore (West Bengal) 721 627 Geographical indicators :Common name : Jack fruit Botanical name : Artocarpus heterophyllus Family : Moraceae Description Tree 50 feet or more, trunk straight; leaves elliptic to obovate, 4 to 8 inches long, stiff and glossy, entire; flowers borne on trunk and thick branches, male spikes cylindrical or club-shaped, 2 to 4 inches long; fruit oblong, 1 to 2 feet long, greenish-yellow, turning brownish, covered with hard points. Fig. 1. View of jack fruit 293 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Origin India or Malaysia. Growth habits:Evergreen tree, 60 feet tall (18 m) or more Common name : Sapota Botanical name : Achras zapota Family : Sapotaceae Description The sapodilla is a fairly slow- growing, long-lived tree, upright and elegant, distinctly pyramidal when young; to 60 feet (18 m) high in the open but reaching 100 feet (30m) when crowded in a forest. It is strong and wind-resistant, rich in white, gummy latex. Its leaves are highly ornamental, evergreen, glossy, alternate, spirally clustered at the tips of the forked twigs; elliptic, pointed at both ends, firm, 3 to 4½ inch (7.5 – 11.25 cm) long and 1 to 1½ inch (2.5–4 cm) wide. Flowers are small and bell - like, with 3 brown - hairy outer sepals and 3 inner sepals enclosing the pale-green corolla and 6 stamens. They are borne on slender stalks at the leaf bases. The fruit may be nearly round, oblate, oval, ellipsoidal, or conical; varies from 2 to 4 in (5–10 cm) in width . When immature it is hard, gummy and very astringent. Though smooth - skinned it is coated with the sandy brown scurf until fully ripe. The flesh ranges in color from yellowish to light - or dark - brown or sometimes reddish - brown ; may be coarse and somewhat grainy or smooth ; becomes soft and very juicy, with a sweet flavor resembling that of a pear. Some fruits are seedless, but normally there may be from 3 to 12 seeds, which are easily removed as they are loosely held in a whorl of slots in the center of the fruit. They are brown or black, with one white margin ; hard, glossy; long oval, flat, with usually a distinct curved hook on one margin; and about ¼ inch (2 cm) long. Origin and distribution The sapodilla is believed native to Yucatan and possibly other nearby parts of southern Mexico, as well as northern Belize and Northeastern Guatemala. In this region there were once 10,00,00,000 trees.