 megaterium NBAII EXB53 increased the seedling vigor index from 20 to 245% in four different chilli varieties (Byadgikaddi, Byadgidabbi, Demon and HPH-12) and other vegetable crops like Capsicum- Indra (245%), Cabbage - Summer Queen (81%), Egg plant -Harit (59%), Cauliflower- Tetris (52%) and Tomato - Heem Sohna (25%) compared to untreated control under nursery conditions. 7. Contact: Director, ICAR- National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources, Bangalore-560 024 64 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Bio formulation for disease management: Maru sena 1 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): The bioformulated product coined as Maru sena 1 was developed by a heat tolerant strain of Trichoderma harzianum isolated from native soil. Utilizing residues of a locally available weed of the region, a bioformulated product was developed where this bio agent can survive for a period of 120 days even at high temperature (55°C). 2. Target crops and delivery system: Maru sena 1 can be used for legumes, oil seeds crops, vegetables and seed species specially cumin. Inoculation can be done through seed treatment (4g/kg seed) and soil application 1kg with 50 kg FYM) as well as root dips for vegetable seedlings. T. harzianum has separately shown effectiveness in reducing incidence of charcoal rot on rain fed crops like guar, cowpea, sesame, mung bean and moth bean. This strain was also found effective in reducing incidence of wilt caused by Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. cumini on cumin as seed and soil treatment. 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): Arid and semi arid region 4. Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated after developing bio- formulated product; their efficacy was demonstrated at growers’ field in order to disseminate this eco friendly and easy management strategy in the region. Field demonstrations were carried out at adopted villages of the Institute’s KVK and NGOs of the region. 5. Whether licensed to private companies, If yes, details thereof: No 6. Benefits: The expected benefit depends on severity of the disease in a particular field and season. The cost benefit ratio varies from 1:25 to 1:50 with crop and growing season as the severity of charcoal rot is more when crops experience moisture stress. Effectiveness of seed coating with bio formulated product of T. harzianum on incidence of dry root rot and seed yield of Guar, moth bean and sesame and on incidence of wilt on cumin were demonstrated at 290 grower’s field during 2015 to 2017. The per cent increase in seed yield ranged from 13.3-23.5% in all legumes and oil seed crops. Its application resulted in reduction in incidence of wilt on cumin crop and enhanced yield by14.5-25.8%. . Control Treated Effect of Trichoderma application on Cumin crop 7.