 of animals animals animals treated came in conceived heat ITK (pigeon droppings) 17 7 5 Allopathic medicine 10 4 2 Basic study Results of the estimation of pigeon waste indicate that it is rich in iron, zinc and fluorine (Table 2). Substantial amount of copper, cobalt, lead and cadmium are also present in the pigeon waste. The results obtained indicate that feeding of pigeon waste to the post-partum animals have a good effect in bringing them to normal heat. With use of pigeon waste, the animals came in heat within 10–18 days of end of treatment with an average of 15.5 days. The effect of pigeon waste is similar to allopathic medicine where both the treatments resulted in bringing about 40% animals to heat. About 71% animals conceived by treating with pigeon waste which was 40% for allopathic medicine. CONCLUSION It is indicative from the results of the study that feeding of pigeon waste is effective in bringing the bovines in heat and may be better than allopathic medicine, particularly if the feeding of pigeon waste is supplement with mineral mixture. Table 2. Content of micro-nutrients in pigeon waste Nutrient Concentration (ppm) Lead 0.833 Cadmium 0.750 Copper 19.087 Cobalt 4.582 Zinc 295.455 Iron 6571.429 Fluorine 167.500 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 1284 Title of the ITK : Determination of efficacy of pigeon waste in showing estrus symptoms in heifers Description of the ITK : To induce oestrus and for showing heat symptoms in heifers, pigeon waste, mixed with jaggery, is fed to heifers 2-3 times a day. The disease is cured up to 60%. Treatment cost per animal is Rs. 10-15. This is practised by the farmers of many villages in Badaun and Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh. Name and address of the discloser : Dr (Ms) Shagufta Jamal, Department of Adult and Continuing Education, Jamia Millia Islamia, Jamia Nagar, New Delhi 110 025 Location of use of the ITK : The ITK is being used in many parts of Bareilly and Budaun districts of Uttar Pradesh. Experimenters : Dr D. Swarup, Head, Division of Medicine. Dr Satish Kumar, Senior Scientist, A.R. Division, and Dr Mahesh Chander, Senior Scientist, Extension Division, Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar (Uttar Pradesh) 243 122 METHODOLOGY Location Field study was done in 4 villages of Bareilly district of Uttar Pradesh. Clinical trial was conducted in villages of district Nainital in Haldwani block with the cooperation of gamin evem krishi vikas samiti. PRA and field study PRA and field survey was done in 4 villages of Bareilly district of Uttar Pradesh. Information were collected from 12 key informants which have been arranged in a 10 score matrix ranking. Experiment Experiments were conducted to study the effect of pigeon waste on 38 bovine heifers with almost similar feeding and management systems. These heifers had inactive/ subactive ovaries with no palpable CL or follicle in villages around Fig. 1. Pigeon waste Haldwani.