 Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Geographical indications Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English names Botanical name Active ingredients Habit Geographical indications Camphor oil is used externally in rheumatism; it is also used as cardiac stimulant and as a constituent of many medicinal preparations. A large, handsome, evergreen tree, native to China and Japan, introduced and cultivated in India as an ornamental and as a source of camphor. Leaves glabrous, chartaceous to sub-coriaceous, ovate-elliptic to elliptic to sub-ovate- elliptic, 3-10 cm x 1-5 cm; panicles axillary, slender, glabrous, many flowered; fruits one-seeded berries, globose, slightly fleshy, 5-10 mm in diameter, seated on a shallow, thin cup, turning black when ripe. 1585 Treatment of diarrhoea in goat by juice of urhul flower (Hibiscus rosa-sinensis) Volume 2, page 348 Urhul Assamese and Bengali: joba; Gv^dsdXi. jasuva; Hindi: jasut, jasum; Kannada: dasavala; Malayalam: chembarathi; Marathi: dasindacha phula, jasavanda; Oriya: mondaro; Sanskrit: japa, Java, rudra pushpam; Tamil: semparuthi; Telugu: Java pushpam. Shoe flower, Chinese hibiscus Hibiscus rosa-sinensis Linn. Crushed flowers yield a dark purplish dye that was formerly employed for blackening shoes. The flowers are considered demulcent, emollient, refrigerant, aphrodisiac and emmanegogue. A decoction of flower is given in bronchial catarrh. The leaves are emollient, apparient, anodyne and laxative. Decoction of leaves is used as a lotion in fever. Fresh root juice is given for gonorrhoea and powdered root for menorrhagia. Root is used in Mysore for some diseases of cattle. An evergreen woody, glabrous, showy shrub, 5-8 ft high; leaves bright green, ovate, entire below, coarsely toothed above; flowers solitary, axillary, bell-shaped, large, 4-6 in. in diameter, with pistil and stamens projecting from the centre; capsules roundish, many-seeded. It is a native of China. It is grown as an ornamental plant in gardens throughout India and often planted as a hedge or fence plant. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients: Geographical indications Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages 1900 Control of diarrhoea in animals by mixture of leaves Volume 2, page 349 Pipal, babool, guava and fingermillet Pipal: Bengali: ashathwa; Gujarati: jari, pipro, pipul; Hindi: pipal, pipli; Kannada: arali, ashwattha; Malayalam: arachu, arrayal, ashvatham; Marathi: ashvatha, pimpala; Tamil: arasu, aswattham; Telugu: ashvatthamu, bodhi. Pipal: Peepal Pipal: Ficus religiosa Linn. Pipal: The fruits and tender leaf buds are occasionally eaten in times of scarcity. The leaves and twigs are lopped for cattle and elephant fodder.