 ABI is involved in activities like (a) Promotion of business through commercialization of technology, (b) Incubation of small and medium enterprise to develop aqua-business, (c) Skill development of entrepreneurs, (d) Development of bankable projects for entrepreneurs, (e) Consultancy services to the industry, NGO, etc. and (f) act as one-stop-center for technology assessment and exposure for the entrepreneurs and industry. Demand for incubation services Incubation is the specialised service provided through strength in domain knowledge and management expertise within particular agri- business space of freshwater aquaculture. Effectiveness and impact of the services depends on the demand of these services by the entrepreneurs. Whether services provided are demanded by sector or not? If demanded, what are the services needed by the entrepreneurs? ABI has assessed the demands from the participation of entrepreneurs in the training programmes, request made to ABI, visit of entrepreneurs and communication in last seven years. As per the assessment, major enterprises in which entrepreneurs were interested were seed production, fish culture, feed production and feed plant, fish processing, pearl culture, carp hatchery, fish waste processing, other aquaculture services like fish health products, aqua-eco tourism, fish marketing etc. Approach of incubation centre has been to openly discuss with the entrepreneurs on their idea about the opportunities within the business ecosystem in which they operate. The centre helps in identifying such opportunities within freshwater aquaculture value chain. Technological and business services Services are the elements of incubation process through which the need of the entrepreneurs and start- ups are served. The services can be categorised into business and technological services. The business services are the typical incubation services provided by ABI while technological services leveraged on technological strength of the institute. ABI Unit acts as one-stop-center for technology showcasing and exposure to the entrepreneurs. Most of the technologies were provided by the institute on which ABI has provided value added technological and business services leading to successful ventures. Technological services in the form of technological accesses, technology commercialization, hands-on training, laboratory testing, technological design, on site handholding etc. There were also group of enterprises which were unique and innovative in nature, the ideas and technologies were brought in by entrepreneurs on which ABI has provided both technological and business services leading to many innovative ventures.