 Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2644 Use of leziuwen weed to cure FMD lesion in catlle Leziuwen, belonging to composite family, is a weed which is generally found in abundance in many places. This weed bears small yellow flower. The leaves and stems are crushed and rubbed over the FMD lesions, which is repeated 2-3 times daily. This helps in fast healing of FMD lesions. Keywords: leziuwen weed, FMD lesion, fast healing Shri Rakesh Chaurasia NRC on Mithun, Jharnapani, Medziphema (Nagaland) 797 106 2500 Treatment of minkedi disease (swelling of larynx) Minkedi i.e. swelling of larynx, is very common among the cattle. The animal suffering from this problem shows the following symptoms: (i) it does not take fodder, (ii) swelling of tongue occurs, and (iii) swelling of larynx. Weakness is observed in the cattle if proper treatment is not provided. Locally available methods for treatment of cattle suffering from minkedi are as follows: A few gram root of coriander (wild species) is ground properly. The paste is mixed with 500-1000 g flour. To this a few ml water is added and a thick suspension is made, which is given to the cattle for 2-4 days orally. Frog is also given to the cattle in their fodder to get relief from this disease. These practices are used in Baldhar village in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. Keywords: minkedi, swelling of larynx, tongue, cariander, frog Shri Rajeev Kumar Room no 32 D, NBH II Hostel, Himachal Pradesh University, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2594 Use of chirpine oil for curing spinal cord problem and itching in animals Sometimes the animals suffer from spinal cord injury and skin aberration problem. Farmers of Mogla and Triath of Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir use chirpine oil for curing itching Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricul-  and spinal cord problem. As pine is a wild tree available in the forest area of Rajouri district, so little cost is involved for collection of oil. Keywords: chirpine oil, spinal cord and itching tural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2577 Use of khand for spinal cord diseases and bronchitis in animals Damage of skin on spinal cord generally takes place in case of draft animals. The khand (Acorus calanus) is a herb, the rhizomes of which are used for treatment of skin damage over spinal cord. This rhizome is fed as such to the animals. The khand is also effective in bronchitis of the animals. This treatment is common in Dharal area of Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: khand, rhizome, spinal cord Communicated by: Dr M. P.