 Findings indicated that no visible E. coli colonies were observed after six minutes of continuous UV-C exposure. The developed system is unique, portable and cost-effective which can be installed in offices, homes, shops, hospitals, malls, etc. The technology was transferred to two firms, M/s CRD Invotech, Maharashtra and M/s Sakhi Soaps, Hindustan Soaps and Salts Company, Andhra Pradesh. Portable smart ultraviolet-C disinfection system (UViC): A portable surface disinfection system for disinfecting personal items and office stationery was developed to help fight against COVID-19 pandemic. Unlike chemical sanitizers, UV-C does not leave a residue and does not require extensive safety equipment. It works as a mode of surface sterilization by destroying nucleic acid and disrupting the DNA of microorganisms. The developed system exceeds UV-C exposure of 1.22 J/cm2 (total dose) which is well above the amount of exposure needed to inactivate SARS-CoV-2. The working capacity of the unit in terms of the total surface area of the objects to be treated/exposed is 25 × 25 cm2. The estimated cost of the unit is approximately ` 1,500. However, the system can be scaled up as per the need. The system has been tested for inactivation of Escherichia coli as classic examples Process/products Novel process for production of protein isolates/ concentrates from de-oiled cakes/meals: At present, chemical process comprising alkaline extraction and acid precipitation is followed for production of protein isolates. The strong alkaline and acidic conditions alters the functional properties of the protein, which adversely affects its quality. A novel process to produce protein isolates/concentrates from oilseed cakes/meals (example soy meal, groundnut cake) without addition of strong or diluted acid was developed. The developed process is unique as it is added acid free and also provides about 5% higher yield of protein as compared to the existing chemical process. The protein produced using ICAR-CIPHET method is superior in terms of solubility, wettability, water absorption capacity and degree of hydrolysis. The yield so obtained is about 35–36% of the total weight of soy meal and 25% of total weight of groundnut cake used, whereas, in the existing process, maximum 30% protein yield from soymeal can be obtained. The developed method comprises novel bacterial strains isolated from a food sample for producing protein from de-oiled meal/flour. The obtained supernatant after precipitation of protein from a particular batch may be used for precipitation of another batch and so on. National and International (PCT) patent applications were filed. The protein produced through developed process may find demand at national as well as international level to boost POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 97 immunity.