 yy Delivery of new varieties, practices, and technologies: The success of the partnership between India and IRRI began with the introduction of the high-yielding rice variety IR8, dubbed miracle rice, which helped save India from a massive famine in the 1970s. This was only the beginning of a partnership that has led to more than 400 improved rice varieties that have resistance to pests and diseases, streamlined rice production practices, and extensive information exchange with Indian scientists and capacity building. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 79 yy Breeding of stress-proof rice: India was the first country to obtain the submergence- tolerant trait bred into local mega-varieties, through collaborative programs with IRRI. Many single- and multiple stress-tolerant lines (flash flood, stagnant flood, drought, salinity, etc.) introduced by IRRI in India are now being cultivated widely by the farmers. These varieties are helping enhance and stabilize rice productivity under the ever- changing climate in the region. yy Improved roll-out of hybrid rice: Hybrid rice research made a significant advance, thanks to partnership between India and IRRI. With IRRI’s support, India now ranks second only to China in commercial production of hybrid rice. yy Built capacity: Between 1962 and 2016, 1,589 Indian researchers participated in education and training programs at IRRI. Indian scholars who have undergone training and done research at IRRI include 123 PhDs, 24 MScs, 13 interns, 10 research fellows, and 138 on-the-job trainees. More than 1,000 Indian scientists also attended short-term courses run by IRRI. The results of this collaboration have been outstanding, setting an example in international research collaboration. India now has an extensive partnership with IRRI in which around 250 institutions/organizations all over India are collaborating with IRRI. 2.ii. Contribution during last one year yy Yield evaluation of 1321 MAGIC-Indica lines at IRRI led to selection of 395 elite lines for yield evaluation at 3 sites evaluation done during 2016 dry season (Rabi) at Maruteru (AP Agril. Univ) while on going during 2016 wet-season (Kharif). Genotype data along with grain quality for the 395 lines shared with partners. yy Phenotyping for bacterial blight, blast and BPH at IIRR (DRR). yy Salinity and sodicity evaluation (seedling stage) at CSSRI completed. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 80 yy New breeding lines identified from 9 locations in SE Asia, shared with Indian partners for further testing in South Asia during kharif 2016. yy Development and analysis of C4 rice prototype. yy Photosynthetic gene discovery from 3K Rice Genome, CRISPR-Cas9/Cpf1 mediated genome editing for precision breeding, High throughput Phenomics. yy Improvement of elite Indian cultivars for biotic stress resistance and high yield potential using genomics strategy.