 Soluble potato protein contains substantial levels of the essential amino acids. Free amino acids present in potatoes are totally available for absorption. Potato protein has an adequate ratio of total essential amino acids to total amino acids and a balance among individual essential amino acid concentrations to meet the needs of infants and small children. However, the digestibility of potato protein is relatively low in infants. Potato protein has a very high biological value since all the essential amino acids are present in it in a good proportion. With its high lysine content, potato can supplement diets which are limiting in lysine. Potato has a clear advantage over cereals in India because of its ability to provide high quality protein. Potato is a superb food which has correct balance between net protein calories and total calories adequate for all age groups. Potato: A low fat commodity There is a common misconception that eating potato may cause obesity due to its high fat content which is not at all a true statement, since potatoes contain very little quantity of fat. The average fat content of potato is 0.1% on fresh weight basis which is too low to have any negative nutritional significance. Fat content in raw tubers of Indian potato cultivars range from 0.07–0.8%. Fat content in people because of its low energy density. The energy value of potato is less than major food crops like rice, wheat, maize and sorghum. The energy value is lower than other tuber and root crops as well as food products from animal origin. Potatoes are an excellent source of complex carbohydrates. These carbohydrates take longer time for break down into glucose and result in energy that lasts longer. Complex carbohydrates are longer chains of sugars, such as starches and fiber. In potato, starch is the major carbohydrate and sucrose, fructose and glucose are the main sugars. Carbohydrates are the body’s primary source of fuel for energy. The energy produced through potato gets stored as glycogen in muscle and liver and functions as a readily available energy during prolonged, strenuous exercise. Potato: A good source of Carbohydrates The major role of carbohydrates in nutrition is to provide energy. The complex carbohydrates present in potato are important to a healthy diet. Carbohydrates in potato are mostly found in the form of starch. On an average, potato contains 14-16% of starch on fresh weight basis. The total carbohydrate content of potato (about 18.5%) is lower than some important crops such as wheat, rice, corn, sorghum and beans. Starch furnishes most of Table 1. Composition of potato and its products per 100 g of edible portion Raw Boiled (in skin) Fried Potato chips French fries Potato flour Water (%) 79.8 79.8 46.9 1.8 44.7 7.6 Carbohydrate (g) 17.1 17.1 32.6 50.0 36.0 79.9 Protein (g) 2.1 2.1 4.0 5.3 4.3 8.0 Fat (g) 0.1 0.1 14.2 39.8 13.2 0.8 Iron (mg) 0.6 0.6 1.1 1.8 1.3 17.