in/ gks/) was developed to engender agricultural research and extension for empowering farm women and girls, who are an important human resource in agriculture. Statistics and computer application: The alternative methodology for estimation of area and production of horticultural crops was developed, and transferred to GoI to implement at national level. The estimates of seed, feed and wastage ratios of major food grains were obtained through a survey conducted in Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Odisha. The data would be of immense use for planning and formulation of future policies. ICAR Research Data Repository for Knowledge Management in Agriculture called KRISHI (Knowledge based Resources Information Systems Hub for Innovations) portal (http:/ /www.krishi.icar.gov.in) was launched. Information, communication and publicity service: The ICAR- Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) is mandated to act as the nodal centre of ICAR for information, communication and knowledge management related activities of the Council. The ICAR -DKMA is impending two projects ‘Development of e- publication system for UG/PG e- textbook’ and publication repository of ‘KRISHI- Knowledge based Resources Information Systems Hub for Innovations in Agriculture’. The ICAR outreach through social media has gained good ground. The facebook page has attracted > 135,000 likes and twitter handle has 8,614 followers. Some of the popular documentaries on YouTube Channel of ICAR, have received more than 250,000 views each. Crucial advisories were developed and posted from time to time in view of natural calamities. The ICAR website (www.icar.org.in) presents knowledge and information in bilingual mode (English and Hindi); on an average more than three lakh hits per month from visitors across the globe are recorded with a significant percentage of new visitors. The ICAR website attracted 5,282,012 visitors (2,539, 352 unique visitors) from 221 countries across the globe. The total registered users on the e-publishing platform of research journals are more than 75,000. In all the epubs platform Indian Agricultural Research Journals (http://epubs.icar.org.in/ejournal) hosts 36 research journals published by the Council or professional societies in agriculture. Viewership analysis revealed that on this portal—total sessions were 253,376 by 139,865 users, and they viewed 1,459,581 pages in 188 countries. The Council organized and participated in 16 exhibitions for the showcasing of new technologies on the occasion of national and international events. The Consortium for e-Resources in Agriculture (CeRA) provided online access to scholarly literature by making available over 3,800 research journals to scientists, students and research scholars of 152 member institutions including ICAR research institutes and agricultural universities across the country.