 Research programmes being pursued are: Evaluation and Utilization of Genetic Variation from in vitro cultures of Brassicas and Basmati Rice; Harnessing Genes of Economic importance from wild relatives of Brassica; Molecular Maps and Gene-tagging in Brassica, Rice and Chickpea; Genetic Transformation of Crop Plants — Brassica, Rice, Chickpea; Development and deployment of Bt Gene System for Insect-Pest Management; Molecular Approaches to improve Fungal Resistance in Chickpea and Brassica; Molecular Characterization of Gene for storage Proteins in Chickpea; Manipulating Biological Nitrogen Fixation in Chickpea, Rhizobium and Azotobacter and Micropropagation in Papaya and Potato. NATIONAL RESEARCH CENTRE FOR DNA FINGERPRINTING DNA fingerprinting techniques are coming handy in genotype identification, population genetics, taxonomy, plant and animal breeding, and in diagnostics and epidemiology of plant, animal, and human pathogens. The Council has in early 1996 established the National Research Centre for DNA Fingerprinting at the NBPGR, New Delhi. A 3-part strategy includes. . . Short-term DNA fingerprinting of all plant varieties and parental lines of the hybrids released; and of livestock including poultry and promising strains of different acquatic animals Long-term DNA fingerprinting of promising indigenous germplasm which includes land races and wild relatives of commercial significance Subsequently DNA fingerprinting of gene pools and cross-pollinated flora and fauna NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL LIBRARY PROJECT ARIS . . » QUICKENING THE PACE OF COMMUNICATION GLOBALLY National Agricultural Library at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi, is the primary and the richest library possessing the largest collection of agro-biological literature in South Asia. It fulfils the information needs of the scientists, teachers, students and extension workers in agriculture. The colossal collection comprises books, monographs, journals and research bulletins; PG thesis; pamphlets and micro-ilms. The library has been providing reference through bibliography, reprography and inter-library link services to about ten thousand scientists spread in the length and breadth of the country. Shortly the library will be linked to the information highway. Project Agricultural Research Information System (ARIS) is in the process of providing for systematic access to research information amongst scientists nationally and internationally. For which, state-of-the-art networking is in progress throughout the National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Both quality of research and management of projects will gain. Thus, the NARS will have on-line connection with INTERNET through NICNET or ERNET. ICAR MERITS TALENT NEW AWARDS... Consistently good research and extension in agricultural sciences by the ICAR has made the nation self-reliant in most agricultural commodities and has propelled exports.