 Hence, diversified livelihood opportunities through community participation are the way forward and the solution will be bio-based interventions and capacity building of the islanders. Aquaculture for conservation and livelihood In the context of the marine aquarium industry, the majority of organisms are exploited from the wild, often involving the adoption of unsustainable fishing practices. This will increase the pressure on the wild stock, leading to the collapse of the natural habitats. The captive propagation of marine ornamental organisms can bring long-term sustainability to the resources, as the natural population is not disturbed. The captive-bred organisms also give confidence to the aquarium trade through a consistent supply of quality animals. In this context, the ICAR-NBFGR introduced the concept of 'Marine Ornamental Aquaculture with Community Participation' at Lakshadweep for local livelihood and marine biodiversity conservation. A germplasm resource centre was established by the ICAR-NBFGR at Agatti Island, Lakshadweep to carry out exploratory surveys and conduct research on marine ornamentals. Initially, this program was funded by the Department of Bio-Technology (DBT, Govt. of India), and moving forward with the financial support of the Tribal Sub Plan program (TSP) of the ICAR-NBFGR and the Centre for Marine Living Resources and Ecology (MoES, Govt. of India). Ornamental shrimps are highly demanded organisms in the aquarium industry, and rearing and marketing them is a way to enhance the income of the local population at Lakshadweep. So exploratory surveys were conducted in different islands namely Agatti, Bangaram, Kavaratti, Thinnakara, Kalpeni, Parali I, Parali II, and Minicoy to Indian Farming 32 January 2024 document the marine biodiversity. The explorations revealed the hidden biodiversity with the discovery of three new species / new to Science, Periclimenella agatti, Urocaridella arabianensis and Actinimenes koyas. Besides, Thor hainanensis, Lysmata hochi, Palaemonella tenuipes, Palaemonella rotumana and Urocaridella antonbruunii were documented, which are new distributional records to Indian waters. In addition, shrimps such as Gnathophyllum americanum, Saron neglectus, S. marmoratus, Ancylocaris brevicarpalis, Stenopus hispidus, Alpheus sp., and Cuapetes sp. were collected. Currently, efforts are underway to standardize captive breeding and seed production techniques of these collected specimens. Seed production technology is standardized for two ornamental shrimp species, T. hainanensis, and A. brevicarpalis for the first time in India /International (Table 1). Further, up- scaled the seed production of two indigenous clown fishes, Amphiprion nigripes (endemic to Lakshadweep) and A. clarkii and being supplied to the beneficiaries for further rearing and marketing.