 Increase poultry meat production from present 3500MT to 8000MT by 2022. ii. Strengthen Bermiok Hatchery to ensure uninterrupted supply of DOCs. iii. Encourage poultry co-operatives for small time growers to ensure economy of scale and risk sharing. iv. Support young entrepreneur for commercial as well as back yard poultry through poultry venture capital fund. v. Poultry processing unit with capacity of 24,000 birds per day is under construction. Piggery Sector i. Increase pork production from present 150MT to 550MT by 2022. ii. Six pig farms of the department to be strengthened with parent stock of exotic breeds for supply of good quality piglets to farmers. iii. 2000 nos. of progressive farmers will be provided 09 sows and 01 boar for piglet production at farmers level(master farmer concept). iv. One modern slaughter house with 50 Nos. pig line is under construction at Mazitar, East. Goatery Sector i. Increase chevon production from present 200MT to 600MT by 2022. ii. Introduction of improved breeds, boyer, Sanen, betel, jamnapari, black Bengal. iii. Selective breeding local Singharey breed goats. iv. Setting of goat breeding farms in four districts for providing good quality breeding stock to farmers. v. Provision of breeding bucks at panchayat units. vi. Modern slaughter house with 50 goat line in one shift is under construction at Mazitar, East. Integrated Farming Livestock are integral part of farming system in Sikkim. Primarily, they are rear for milk and meat purpose and excreta of the livestock is used for organic cultivation in the state. The 485 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 farmers rear cows, buffalo, goat, sheep, and poultry for various purposes. In higher hills yak is rear for milk as well as meat purpose. Apart from livestock various forestry based farming systems are adopted to supplement the income of the farmers. State of Sikkim has been declared as organic state and follows integrated farming where crops, livestock are the component of farming system. Govt. of Sikkim has taken following steps to promote integrated farming in the state. i. Production of manure where the govt. is promoting and providing subsidies of making of Bio-fertilizer production unit, Azolla culture ii. Vermi-culture hatcheries, Rural compost-cum-Urine Pit iii. Govt. is producing organic seeds on its own farms and SHG groups identified for seed production. iv. Bio-village has been setup using EM technology, 396 villages were adopted as bio-villages by the Department of Food Security and Agriculture Development in collaboration with Maple Orgtech Pvt. Ltd, Kolkata. About 14,000 farmers and 14,000 acres of land in all the 4 districts of Sikkim were benefited under the programme.