 132 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series 133 Agricultural Education and Agripreneurship Climate Smart Agriculture Climate Smart Agriculture 134 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series 135 Climate Smart Agriculture MANAGING SOIL FOR FOOD AND CLIMATE SECURITY AND ADVANCE SDG’S OF THE UN Rattan Lal Growth in India’s agricultural productivity since independence is a unique success story. Between 1947 and 2021, population of India increased by a factor of 4.23 from 330 million to 1398 million while the food grain production increased by a factor of 6.3 from 50 million tons to 314.5 million tons along with per capita increase of K Cal/day from 2000 to 2450.There was a similar increase in horticultural production by a factor of 10, milk by 9 and fish by 13. The grain export increased to 20 million tons per year for US$ 40 billion and the grain buffer stock to 50 million tons. Accordingly, the poverty was reduced from 70 per cent to 20 per cent ,and there is a trend of poverty reduction over time. Thus, there is a very good reason for celebration of the Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav. Because of poverty and lack of access to an adequate amount of safe and nutritious food, there are almost 190 million (14 per cent or one in seven) people who are prone to undernourishment and vast majority of adults (along with mothers and children under five) are malnourished because of the deficiency of micronutrients Prof. Rattan Lal, World Food Laureate (2022), is globally recognized as a pioneer in the soil centric agricultural management to improve food security and develop climate-resilient agriculture through soil carbon sequestration, sustainable intensification, efficient utilization of agroecosystems, sustainable management of soils and soil health. 136 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series and protein. Furthermore, there is a serious problem of soil degradation (by accelerated erosion, salinization, depletion of soil organic carbon concentration in the root zone and nutrient imbalance), excessive with draw of water and eutrophication, pollution of air and ever increasing emission of greenhouse gases and severe loss of biodiversity. Similarly to Millennium Development Goals, the Sustainable Development Goals of the Agenda 2030 of the United Nations are also not on track. The future priority must be on food systems rather than just on agricultural production. Agricultural practices must be nature-positive and aimed at reconciling the need for improving food systems with the necessity of enhancing and sustaining the environment. Food systems of the future must strengthen ecosystem services and minimize disservices. Innovative food systems, while producing more from less (land, water, input and emission of greenhouse gases) by enhancing productivity and use efficiency, must also be based on the “One Health Concept”. The latter implies that “health of soil, plants, animals, people, ecosystems and planetary processes is one and indivisible”.