 ICAR- CIFT has developed various seaweed-based products with anti-inflammatory, anti-diabetic, anti-cancer, and immunological modulating effects attributable to their competence in post-harvest processing and value addition. Their product line now includes several ready- to-eat seaweed items, which are becoming increasingly popular (Gopalakrishnan et al. 2020). Fish oil (mainly omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids), algal oil, shark liver oil and squalene, chondroitin salts, collagen, gelatin, collagen peptide, chitin, chitosan as well as their monomers and oligomers, peptides and their derivatives, vitamins, seaweeds and their components, etc. are a few important products for both pharmaceutical and nutraceutical sectors. ICAR-CIFT-developed oyster peptide extract which is packed with antioxidants and anti-inflammatory properties. Several unique nutraceuticals, including dietary fibre extract from seaweeds, Nutridrink (grape juice fortified with seaweed extract), fish soup fortified with seaweed bioactive component, and seaweed-infused cookies are also developed and commercialized by the institute. Additionally, it has developed a nutrient formulation consisting of cereal mixtures and dried fruits enriched with various biomolecules such Indian Agriculture after Independence 202 as high-profile fish protein, collagen peptides, and omega-3 oil in the form of crunchy granola. 2.4.3. Waste to wealth Seafood processing generates nearly 50-60% of discards, and if not properly utilized it can lead to various environmental, social as well as economic issues. The recovery of biomolecules through the production of various products aids in the elimination of hazardous environmental aspects and improvement of quality in the fish processing business, as well as increasing profitability. The method developed by ICAR-CIFT for utilizing fish waste created a variety of key food and industrial goods including chitin, glucosamine hydrochloride, chitosan and carboxymethyl chitosan, hydroxyapatite, fish calcium from bones, bioactive melanin, astaxanthin from shrimp shell waste, absorbable surgical sutures from the fish gut, collagen peptide from fish scale and bones, etc. The process for the production of chitosan from prawn shell waste transferred to the industry during the 1980s has led to its large-scale production at present. The collagen-chitosan film developed from fish waste has a wide range of applications in wound dressing and dental surgery. The antioxidant chitosan derivative produced was beneficial in microencapsulating vitamins and ß carotene, resulting in a unique delivery mechanism. Technology has also been developed to overcome the threat of fisheries waste by effectively converting it into fish feed. 2.4.4.