 Few RFID applications are shown in Figure 16 below- TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 23 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 24 Figure 16: Applications of RFID 2.3.6. Z-Wave Z-Wave stands out as a prominent wireless communication protocol specifically designed for home automation, facilitating seamless communication among various smart devices in an affordable and reliable manner. Operating under source crowdedness architecture, Z-Wave enables nodes or devices to communicate with each other, even when direct communication is not feasible. In this architecture, a node communicates with the nearest available node, creating a mesh network where messages are relayed until reaching the intended destination. The process of adding or removing nodes from the mesh network is standardized. Figure 17: Z Wave Architecture Each Z-Wave network has a unique ID, which is assigned to the Z-Wave Hub and to every device in the network. This ensures that the neighbor’s hub cannot control other’s devices when an Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Automobile Customer M ' } Services anufacturing Automatic Toll Tax RF Safety and ID ducati Surveillance Tag ST ion Health Care Defense Ammunitions Figure 16: Applications of RFID 2.3.6. Z-Wave Z-Wave stands out as a prominent wireless communication protocol specifically designed for home automation, facilitating seamless communication among various smart devices in an affordable and reliable manner. Operating under source crowdedness architecture, Z-Wave enables nodes or devices to communicate with each other, even when direct communication is not feasible. In this architecture, anode communicates with the nearest available node, creating a mesh network where messages are relayed until reaching the intended destination. The process of adding or removing nodes from the mesh network is standardized. Protocol Z-Wave Protocol Edge Convert to ’ Ingestion Analytics Mart Device Figure 17: Z Wave Architecture Each Z-Wave network has a unique ID, which is assigned to the Z-Wave Hub and to every device in the network. This ensures that the neighbor’s hub cannot control other’s devices when an TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 24 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 25 extra level of security is needed, such as for door locks and other high security devices. Z-Wave has another level of security which uses AES128 encryption at the same level that major banks use to protect financial information. Z-Wave AES encryption is mandatory for hubs with the Z- Wave Plus support. Z-Wave's frequency varies across countries, adhering to regulations specific to each region. For instance, in India, it operates in 865- 868 MHz. 2.3.7.