 28, Type IV, Brock Host, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) Location of use of the ITK : The district of Lahaul and Spiti in Himachal Pradesh is situated in the west of Great Himalayan range between 30° 21" and 30° 50" 57' north latitude and 75° 46" 29' and 78° 41" 34' East latitudes. Basically, the people have agriculture and animal husbandry as the main occupations. The climate of the district is most suited for production of temperate fruits and vegetables of very high quality. Majority of the area is under cold desert and is isolated, fragile, marginal and inaccessible. These areas are known for traditional ethos and wisdom for natural resource management. Experimenters : Dr M.L. Parmar, Professor of Physical Chemistry and Shri Ajay Thakur, Scientific Assistant, Department of Chemistry, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 METHODOLOGY PRA and field study Different areas of Lahaul and Spiti in Himachal Pradesh were visited and information provided by the farmers on use of ash for snow melting was collected. Experiment The following experimental techniques were used for determining the scientific reasoning for snow melting by ash or any other material. Experiment 1 The first experiment was designed to know whether the dissolution of ash in water generates heat or absorbs heat from the surroundings. In other words, whether the dissolution process of ash in water is exothermic or endothermic. First a calorimeter was calibrated, i.e. its specific heat or water equivalent was determined. The heat of solution of the ash, collected from the villages of Spiti valley, was determined. Then 400 ml cold water, at room temperature was taken in the calorimeter, fitted with stirrer and 1/10° thermometer. Different amounts of ash (10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, and 100 g) were taken and the experiment was repeated for each amount separately. Experiment 2 The second experiment was designed to see the effect of sprinkling of ash on ice in the open system. To see the effect of sprinkling of ash, two  CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS  trays each containing 1,500 ml water were taken. The water was allowed to freeze in a deep freezer. The next day both the trays were placed in open, under direct solar heat. On the first tray 5 g ash was sprinkled and the other was left as such (without ash). The amount of water melted from each tray was measured separately with the help of a measuring cylinder after at intervals of time. The experiment was repeated by sprinkling 10 g and 15 g ash. Similar experiment was repeated by adding 5 and 10 g soil. Also the rate of melting of ice by adding ash and soil powder was compared by adding 5, 10, 15 g ash and soil in different trays respectively. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION In this investigation, Pattan, Tinnan and Gar valleys of Lahaul area were surveyed. This survey data are summarized in Table 1.