 The release of 389 crop varieties, production of quality breeder seed and planting materials and promotion of agricultural exports marked the impact of ICAR technologies. While, the release of biofortified crop varieties, strengthening POSHAN Abhiyan, promoting startups and entrepreneurs in food processing especially in millets contributed significantly in enhancement of nutritional outcome. The climate resilience in agriculture was addressed by releasing resilient varieties, capacity building in new resilient villages, and revalidating agriculture contingency plans of 15 districts. In addition, chemical free agriculture, water footprint reduction, disruptive innovations for smart/ precision agriculture summarizes R&D efforts for enhancing respective resource use efficiencies at field level. The major achievements in animal productivity and health management were documentation of indigenous animal breeds, cloning technology in breeding, feed supplement formulations, dairy technology, and Sero- surveillance of animal diseases. The research breakthrough in aquatic sector is summarized in Blue Revolution. The innovations in farm and post- harvest equipments, processing protocols, and storage are covered under mechanization and reduction of post-harvest losses. PREFACE vi DARE–ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2021-22 During the period, the agricultural education was strengthened through revision of UG and PG course curricula, quality assurance in higher agricultural education and enhancement in number and amount of scholarships. Further, approval of road map for the implementation of New Education Policy 2020 and constitution of a committee for developing syllabus and curricula on natural farming were the efforts to align agricultural education with National Educational Policy. The Lab to Land outreach by KVKs helped ICAR to reach the unreached through establishment of new KVKs, conduct of FLDs, skill development trainings, extension activities, and supply of large quality of seeds and planting materials. Besides, documented ~71000 success stories of farmers towards Doubling of farmers’ income. Effective use of ICT in decision making and marketing of farm produce for empowering farmers is summarised under digital linkage with farmers. The document is an effort to provide a glimpse of ICAR’s R&D achievements during year 2021-22 under the guidance and supervision of Dr. T. Mohapatra, former Secretary, DARE and DG,ICAR and support of Dr. Himanshu Pathak, Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR. The inputs from all the SMDs/Units are duly acknowledged with thanks to all the DDGs/ADGs and concerned personnel. The support of Mrs Suman Khurana, Senior Technical Officer of PIM section is highly appreciated. Date: October 10, 2022 Place: New Delhi Editors vii DARE–ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2021-22 CONTENTS S. No. Themes Page No. Foreword iii Preface v 1. Impact of ICAR Technologies 1 2. Enhancement of Nutritional Outcome 5 3. Oil Palm Development Programme 8 4.