 Thermo-comfortable thatched roof influences cow-shed’s micro-environment The study revealed that cow-shed designs and comfort influenced milk production and expression of cows’ behaviour in milking parlour. Dairy cows kept in thermo-comfortable sheds were more docile and exhibited less temperament score as compared to those kept in existing shed. Milk flow rate, milking durations and milk parlour exit score were also higher, though the differences were nonsignificant. Use of paddy straw as roofing material and changes in roof design and axis orientation of cow-shed favourably changed the micro-environment of shed, augmented the milk yield, enhanced comfort indices and positively modulated the expression of milking behaviours of dairy crossbred Jersey cows. Buffalo Cryopreserving buffalo semen: A new buffalo specific semen extender to improve post-thaw motility of cryopreserved buffalo semen, was developed. Concentrations of several metabolites are significantly LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 80 Mithun Growth performance under semi-intensive system: Average age at first heat (AFH), age at first calving (AFC) and gestation period were recorded as 940,1215 and 285 days respectively. Calves born during autumn showed higher birth weight than in summer (20.03±0.33 vs.19.60±0.55 kg). Average daily weight gain (ADG) for calves (up to 12 months), grower (1–3 years), adults (4– 5 year) and above 5 years was 176±11.21, 197.72±11.24, 142.28±15.02 and 98.63±25.01 g/day. Estrus behavior and AI: Estrus behavior along with visual, physiological and gyneacological changes was observed and recorded in mithun cows to predict the proper timing of AI in mithun. Reproductive behavior of mithun bull was also recorded in response to estrus cows. Physico-chemical properties of cervical mucus (pH, consistency, viscosity, rheological properties and spinbarkeit value) were also studied. Based on all parameters, a score card was developed for prediction of estrus in mithun and proper timing of AI. During the reporting period 18 calves were born from estrus synchronized and timed AI mithun cows. Poultry Semen cryopreservation: The protocol of cryopreservation of semen of PD-6 chicken line was optimized using 4% dimethyl sulfoxide, and a fertility of 65% was obtained after AI in PD-3 females. Heat stress study and waste management: Heat stress decreased concentration of plasma leptin, ghrelin and growth hormone in Nicobari chickens, and supplementation of fermented yeast culture reversed it and showed beneficial effects on body weight and egg production. Poultry waste management protocol is being standardized. Suitability of various raw materials for composting poultry manure, the C: N ratio, P and K were analysed.