 Nakul Gupta*, Rajesh Kumar, P M Singh, Tribhuvan Chaubey, Vikas Singh, Shivam Kumar Rai, Chandra Sekher and T K Behera Technology S eed enhancements deal with post–harvest treatments that improve germination and seedling growth that facilitate the delivery of seeds and other materials required at the time of sowing. Moreover, seed enhancement helps in improving the performance of seeds to maximize the potential yield and quality of crops under the stressed conditions. These treatments are performed on the seeds after harvest, but prior to sowing or before the storage. These ‘value added’ techniques are performed on a given seed lot to fulfil the objectives given here. yy Improvement in seed quality yy Improvement in reliability of plant establishment yy Increase in uniformity of plant stand yy Reduction in seeding rates and thinning costs yy Facilitate precision planting, e.g. Pelleting. yy Overcome dormancy or stressful (biotic and abiotic) conditions The seed enhancement includes seed processing, priming, pre-germination, seed coating and pelleting, seed fortification and infusion. Seed processing Seed lots received from the fields often have high moisture content and contain trash, inert material, weed seeds, etc. Seed processing upgrades the seed quality by removing foreign material, undesirable seed, other crop seed, diseased and weed seeds, uniform size grading and seed treatment with chemical protectants during processing improves planting value and protects the crop from pest and diseases in the field and during storage. Seed processing ensures the following yy Uniform planting rates due to proper sizing and by removing seed appendages which hinder planting. yy Improve seed crop marketing by improving seed quality. yy Prevents spread of weeds by removing weed seeds. yy Improves crop quality by removing other crop seeds from pure seeds. yy Seed treatment with chemical protectants during processing protects the crop from pest and diseases in the field and during storage. yy Reduce seed loss by removing high moisture, foreign material and drying the seed. Benefits of seed treatment: yy Protection against seed-borne and soil-borne pathogens. yy Protection of emerging seedlings from damage by herbicides. Steps in Seed processing Drying Seeds possess high moisture at time of harvest, therefore requires drying before processing Conditioning and precleaning Scalping, debearding. hulling, shelling or any other operation to allow seed flow readily through cleaners and elevators Cleaning Removing impurities and debris (inert material, weed seed, other crop and broken seed) from seed. It can be done manually or mechanically. Upgrading After cleaning specific size grading to remove undersized, other crop and weed seeds is done to upgrade the processed seed Seed treatment Applying chemicals (fungicides, insecticides, and growth regulators) or bioagents or botanicals Indian Horticulture 66 Table 1.