 Batch spawning was observed continuously for next four days from the same pair of fishes and spawning occurred in five batches. Fertilization and hatching rates were estimated to be 71 and 40%, respectively. Incubation time was 16 hours at 35%º salinity and 25ºC water temperature. Newly hatched larvae were 1.96 mm in length. They were reared on Chlorella and Artemia nauplii feed up to 18th day post hatching (dph) and thereafter on artificial feed. The larvae metamorphosed into juveniles in 35 to 37 dph at water temperature of 26-27°C. 4. Fish Improvement Standardized the induced breeding and seed production technology of Hypselobarbus kolus, an indigenous Peninsular carp. This fish breeds during October-November months with average fecundity of 15,060 eggs/kg and 62% rate of hatching. Goldlined seabream, Rhabdosargus sarba 26 dph fry of goldlined seabream Fingerlings of goldlined seabream Hypselobarbus kolus Achieved the breeding technologies of three marine ornamental fishes, viz. Black bar chromis (Pycnochromis retrofasciatus), Caerulean damsel (Pomacentrus caeruleus) and Maldives damselfish (Amblyglyphidodon indicus) including protocols of broodstock development, breeding, and larval rearing. The adult fishes were maintained in circular HDPE tanks. Fishes were spawned in the early morning and the eggs were attached to the PVC pipes provided as substratum. The number Maldives damsel fish (Amblyglyphidodon indicus) Caerulean damsel (Pomacentrus caeruleus) ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 50 FISH IMPROVEMENT metamorphosis by the 45 dph. ICAR-NBFGR model for creation of sustainable livelihood opportunities for the women of Lakshadweep Islands Her Excellency Smt. Droupadi Murmu, Hon’ble President of India appreciated the efforts of ICAR- NBFGR in providing additional source of livelihood to the women of Lakshadweep islands during her visit on March 18, 2023. ICAR-NBFGR has established a marine ornamental aquatic organisms germplasm resource centre at Agatti island for propagation of indigenous marine ornamental shrimps/ fishes. Training was provided to the self-help group clusters, and the community aquaculture units are being successfully operated for rearing ornamental shrimps and fishes. The adaption of technology resulted in the creation of sustainable livelihood among the local population with a subsistence income. ❑ Black bar chromis (Pycnochromis retrofasciatus) of eggs per spawning ranged from 50-200 numbers. The newly hatched larvae were small with very less yolk and started feeding from 2 dph onwards. The larvae were exclusively fed using selected copepods as live feed till the completion of the flexion stage and completed the SUCCESS STORIES Catfish seed production: An emerging source of livelihood ICAR-CIFA, Bhubaneswar imparted hands-on training and technical guidance to farmers from across the country on catfish brood stock management, induced breeding, hatchery management, seed production and live feed culture.