 Also their sitting posture during fish dressing operation causes leg pain, back pain etc. problems thereby reducing the work efficiency, capacity and aggravate their health issues. Therefore, a fish dressing platform was developed. The optimum hand reach envelope and relevant anthropometric body dimensions were considered for proper workplace layout (placement of raw material, finished product and cutting blade) in fish dressing operation. Based on hand reach envelope, the fish dressing platform was developed. It is 1,100 mm long and 660 mm wide, and selected on the basis of reach envelope. The height was kept adjustable between 630 mm and 700 mm and the cutting blade was kept at 405 mm from SRP. Muffler for a 45 hp tractor to achieve low noise level: New mufflers with 4 and 6 mm hole diameter were developed and tested based on the parametric studies. Pipes of all chamber have the same diameter. Perforations on the pipe introduce multiple path for acoustic waves to propagate. The large diameter of perforations provided more open area ratio, which enables in reducing exhaust back pressure. Designed muffler produced 2.45 kPa and 4.9 kPa exhaust back pressure with sound pressure level of 98.11 dBA and 96.97 dBA, respectively. These both designs reduced sound pressure level and exhaust back pressure well, compared to existing muffler. Designed new muffler having 4 mm perforation diameter showed 1.05% noise reduction compared to the existing muffler with 33.78% less exhaust back pressure. A new muffler with an absorptive muffler resonator was also developed to achieve reduced noise level. Test result of the designed muffler showed that it is able to reduce noise by 2.4 dB, which is 2.45% as compared to existing muffler. The testing of mufflers of 6 mm perforated diameter improved transmission loss in lower frequency zone and reduced exhaust back pressure as well. Air blast sprayer for tall palms: A prototype of an air blast sprayer mounted on a 20 BHP mini garden tractor which delivered up to a height of 25 m was developed. Solar energy integrated mobile mushroom cropping chamber: A solar energy integrated mobile mushroom cropping chamber which can hold 80 RTF bags and produce 15–20 kg of fresh mushrooms in 20 days cropping period was developed. The average monthly mushroom yield is up to 25–28 kg. The technology has been licensed. Automated fumigation chamber for treatment of grapes with SO2 and CO2 Indian exporters of grapes are facing problems in A guidance system for agricultural tractor The conventional practices of tractor manoeuvring pattern and turning methods are widely used in our country because these practices are very convenient for the operator to follow. An RTK-GNSS navigation system and an android-based application system were developed to show the real-time tracking of the tractor. An algorithm for finding alternate fieldwork patterns was developed, which is also simulated for different implement widths and different field sizes.