 To accelerate agricultural develop- ment in the country, protect plant breeders’ rights; stimulate investment for research and development both in public and private sector for the development of new plant varieties. Facilitate the growth of seed industry in the country which will ensure the availability of high-quality seeds and planting material to the farmers. Benefit Sharing The benefit sharing is one of the most important ingredients of the farmers’ rights. Section 26 provides benefits sharing and the claims can be submitted by the citizens of India or firms or non- governmental organization formed or established in India. Depending upon the extent and nature of the use of genetic material of the claimant in the development of the variety along with commercial utility and demand in the market of the variety breeder will deposit the amount in the Gene Fund. The amount deposited will be paid to the claimant from the National Gene Fund. The Authority also publishes the contents of the certificate for the purpose of inviting claims for benefits sharing. Extent of farmers rights: A farmer will be violating farmers rights or infringing the breeder’s rights on a variety if he sells seed in branded form (packs, labels), adopts any practice that can be described as processing, if the product is beyond farm produce, multiplies seedlings, propagules under protected cultivation systems, nurseries etc. for selling. Compensation covers are available to farmers only on crop produced from 49 Sustainable Agriculture seed procured through authorised seller/ licensee/ agent/ registered breeder. Right of claiming compensation is available to a farmer in the event of a variety not performing as per label claim on a registered variety after adopting standard production protocols. But a farmer who has used his own saved seed or who has purchased or procured unbranded seed from another farmer does not have any right to seek compensation. Liability to pay compensation is transferable to a licensee or an agent by a registered breeder provided the MoU has the clause and packet has either licensee wise denomination/ licensee identity with clarity to determine the source of seed purchased by farmer. But in case the registered breeder only authorises a person to produce or sell or market a registered variety, then the liability of paying compensation is retained by the registered breeder only. Modern plant breeding has been made precise and specific to target through genomics tools for the selection and varietal development. New products can be developed using MAS or genomic selection or genomic edited mutants containing introgression or involving such different parents either as recombination or hybrid products. A variety is eligible for registration under the Act if it essentially fulfils the criteria of Distinctiveness, Uniformity and Stability (DUS). Coexistence of farmers rights and breeders’ rights ensures mega returns to right-holder breeder.