06 crores in the PM CARE Fund. Besides, several officials, Clubs and Labour Welfare Funds contributed to PM-CARES. U. Recognitions to ICAR ICAR was conferred with Global Gene Stewardship Award 2018 of the Borlaug Global Rust Initiative. ICAR commended by Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances, GoI for significant progress in e-Governance in 2017-18 ICAR bagged the prestigious International King Bhumibol World Soil Day Award conferred by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Rome on 5th December 2020. The prestigious global award was received by ICAR-IISS, Bhopal as the lead institution, for its commitment to raising awareness of the importance of healthy soils. Acquisition of status of International Depository Authority (IDA) by “National Agriculturally Important Microbial Culture Collection”, Unit of ICAR-NBAIM by World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), Geneva ICAR conferred with Digital India Awards - 2020 under Open Data Champion Category. Dr. T. Mohapatra, Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR received the prestigious Borlaug Global Rust Initiative (BGRI) Gene Stewardship Award on 14th April, 2018 in Morocco. Ms. Kheya Bhattacharya, Ambassador of India in Morocco and Indian wheat team joined him on the occasion. FAO included ICAR Advisories as Voluntary Guidelines for the benefit of Fisheries Sector across the Globe, FAO publishes ICAR-CIFT’s work on Food & Gear loss in Gill Net Fisheries. ICAR Tableau rolled in Raj Path on 26 January for the first time in 2018 and again in 2019; the tableau with the theme `Kisan Gandhi’ won the Best Tableau prize in 2019. Hon’ble President conferred Digital India Awards on ICAR virtually ICAR Tableau-Kisan Gandhi 2019     

Crop Cultivars Developed Through Molecular Breeding Second Edition Indian Council of Agricultural Research New Delhi 110 001  Crop Cultivars Developed Through Molecular Breeding Devendra Kumar Yadava Firoz Hossain Partha Ray Choudhury Dinesh Kumar Ashok Kumar Singh Tilak Raj Sharma Trilochan Mohapatra Second Edition Indian Council of Agricultural Research New Delhi 110 001 Citation: Devendra Kumar Yadava, Firoz Hossain, Partha Ray Choudhury, Dinesh Kumar, Ashok Kumar Singh, Tilak Raj Sharma and Trilochan Mohapatra (2022). Crop cultivars developed through molecular breeding (Second Edition). Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. Year of Publication: 2022, 80 p. Conceived by: Dr. Trilochan Mohapatra, Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and Education; and Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi - 110001 Designed by: Dr. Firoz Hossain and Dr. Devendra Kumar Yadava, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi -110012 Contributed by: All the developers of the varieties and hybrids Published by: Dr. S.K.