8%) had the largest number of projects as lead centres. This indicates that Northern region has the highest no. of lead Introduction of NASF Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 8 Figure 5: Participating organizations in NASF projects to women researchers while a majority of 93% projects are being implemented by men researchers (Fig. 8). This could be attributed to fact that the more proposals are being submitted by men researchers. The data indicates the need for the popularization and awareness generation of the scheme among women researchers. Figure 6: State wise spread of project implementing lead centres centres. Nine projects are being implemented in NE region as indicated in Fig. 6. 1.9.4 Human resource in NASF Projects: This scheme gives a platform to appraise and nurture the upcoming talent pool of the country for greater inclusion of institutions in the scientific growth of the nation thus providing direct/indirect employment. Besides supporting the projects, creating infrastructure for advanced research, generating technologies, products, capacity building through training and skill development of scientists, a large number of human resource i.e. >1200 SRF/RAs/YPs/others have benefitted (Fig.7) and received knowledge and developed skill base in different areas of agriculture and allied sectors. In addition, large number of skilled/semiskilled workers get employment in the projects. Under NASF, equal opportunities are given to both genders for award of projects. Among the implemented total projects of 282 the gender distribution among the PIs/CCPIs indicates a skewed distribution of only 7% Figure 7: No. of project staff/SRF/RA in different theme- based projects NASF has also supported projects on many new initiatives like award of projects on Scientific Utilization through Research Augmentation- Prime Products/ Panchagavya from Indigenous Cows (SUTRA-PIC) and Extra Mural Research (EMR) and also developed CRISPR Crop Network: targeted improvement of stress tolerance, nutritional quality and yield of crops by using genome editing. Four projects have been supported under SUTRA, eleven projects under EMR and few projects under novel aspects of CRISPR. NASF is directly and indirectly contributing to SDGs and NDPs through its funding thus creating a stronger ecosystem and cohesion across the agricultural science research, generating more diverse outcomes, driving the nation’s commitment towards sustainable and national development goals. Fig. 8: Gender-wise distribution among PI/CCPIs 9 2.1 Biotechnology, genomics and allele mining in plants, animals and fisheries Targeted improvement of crops by using genome editing: Gene editing with CRISPR- Cas9 technology was employed to develop mutants of the drought and salt tolerance (DST) gene, a zinc finger transcription factor, in rice cultivar MTU 1010.