 The system was trained on a large dataset of digital images of healthy and infected wheat leaves (n=1000), allowing it to accurately differentiate between different types of leaf blight complex symptoms. The results demonstrated that the AI-based image analysis system using deep learning models was able to accurately detect and classify leaf blight complex symptoms in wheat crops with high accuracy (> 90%). The study demonstrated the potential of AI-based deep learning models using image analysis for the early detection and management of wheat leaf blight complex. This technology can help farmers identify leaf blight complex infections at an early stage, enabling them to take timely management measures to prevent the spread of the disease and minimize crop losses. The proposed system offers a fast and accurate alternative to traditional visual inspection methods, ultimately improving crop yield and food security. Image acquisition (RGB) for healthy and diseased samples (n=1000) as well as in laboratories. Isothermal amplification reactions (40-70°C) can be completed within 30-60 min under field conditions using the device. It is cheap as the whole assembly costs only about R 300. This device was developed keeping in mind all agricultural and allied sectors where molecular diagnosis is needed. Identification of sensitive bands for brown planthopper in rice using hyperspectral remote sensing: Combination of derivative approach of continuum removal (CR) using ENVI software package, and sensitivity analysis (SA) were used to identify peaks and dips in the sensitive region. Bands at 519, 670 and 718 nm gave maximum accuracy of about 83.66%, which indicates that the green, red and red edge regions, were mostly responsible for the detection of BPH in rice. Spectral signature of Healthy vs BPH infested rice at different damage level. Identification of resistance source for powdery mildew in sesame: A field experiments was conducted to evaluate the germplasm (n=446) of sesame including USDA germplasm. Among 446 germplasm evaluated, IC-500445 was found to be resistant to powdery mildew under natural infection. The same was confirmed with molecular methods which showed that susceptible germplasm (infected powdery mildew) was amplified than resistant germplasm (IC-500445). ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 74 CROP MANAGEMENT (a) Germplasm, IC-500445 showed resistance to powdery mildew and (b) amplification of powdery mildew in susceptible germplasm Deciphering the etiology of newly emerged stunting disease of rice The concurrent reports on emergence of stunting disease of rice across the North-West Indian rice growing areas attracted attention for elucidating its etiology. Surveys of different rice fields (63.4 acres) recorded an incidence of stunting disease in the range of 1-20% in the affected fields. A systematic investigation employing three independent methods was undertaken. Under electron microscope, icosahedral virions of ~65-75 nm were observed.