 Some most common examples of border crop practised in vegetable cultivation are:  Maize as a border crop with cauliflower  Sorghum as a border crop with cauliflower  Pigeon pea as a border crop with okra and chilli  Maize as a border crop with watermelon Seed production with border crop: Seed productions of cross pollinated vegetable crops require isolation distance upto one kilometer and even more which is usually difficult to maintain by breeders or farmers in field. Border crop is having potential to be utilized as mechanism of providing space isolation for seed production. In general, 5-7% area of main crop allocated for border crop to take advantage of IPM module and additional economic benefit from border crop. Economics of seed production alongwith border crop: Economic analysis revealed that seed production of amaranth is more profitable with border crop of sweet corn in terms of pest management, gross return, net return and benefit cost ratio (Table 2). The gross returns of `4,35,000 /ha was recorded from amaranth seed (main crop) and sweet corn in border rows due to higher values of economic yield. Additionally, no spray for pest management was needed during the entire seed production of amaranth, which encourages same IPM module in seed production of other vegetable crops also. Limitations of trap and border crop • Application of trap crop and border crop is not an ultimate solution to all insect-pest problems because it needs additional pest management strategies based on insect Table 1. List of important trap crops and attracted insects Main crop Trap crop Insect-pests attracted by trap crop Cucurbits Summer squash Pickleworm (Diaphania nitidalis) Tomato, beans Summer squash Whitefly (Bemisia argentifolii) Cabbage, Cauliflower Indian mustard Diamond Back Moth (Plutella xylostella L.) Tomato African marigold, Calendula Tomato fruit borer (Helicoverpa armigera L.) White cabbage Chinese cabbage Flea bettle (Phyllotreta cruciferae) Bell pepper Sunflower, Sorghum Stink bug (Halyomorpha halys) Common bean Eggplant Silverleaf whitefly (Bemisia argentifolii) Onion Carrot, Buckwheat Thrips (Thrips tabaci) Muskmelon Buttercup squash Striped cucumber bettle (Acalymma vittatum) Lettuce Alfalfa European tarnished plant bug (Lygus rugulipennis) Okra Short duration Pigeon pea Fruit worm (Helicoverpa armigera L.) Cabbage, Cauliflower Radish Cabbage borer (Hellula undalis) Table 2. Economics of amaranth seed production with sweet corn as border crop Expenditure Per unit rate Total cost (`/ha) Land preparation `50,000 per acre 1,25,000 Labour wages for intercultural operations and seed processing (threshing, cleaning etc.) Labour wages @ `350 per person 25,000 Miscellaneous (input seed cost, irrigation, weedicide etc.