 (a) For transportation of vines, care is taken that while packing the bundle of each vine is prepared with a bunch of leaves, called chada, and these are packed in bags. The quantity of each bundle depends on area. These are planted in an area where water remains up to onset of monsoon and fresh rain water accumulates. (b) Their planting is done by putting a knot at the root side of the vine. A bamboo stick is bifurcated at one end and with its help the knot side of vine is pressed in tank-bed soil in standing water, and plant the vines in water as per their length. The chada bunch of leaves is kept outside the water. If tank becomes dry or water is withdrawn, these are retransplanted to another standing water-body. (c) Timely weeding is done. Mainly water algae are taken out of the water surface and Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator other water-weeds are removed from the tank-bed soil. The process is repeated till the accumulation of fresh water in the pond. (d) As per the knowledge of growers, red beetle causes heavy damage to the shoots. It is controlled manually, or the traditional method of spreading the ash of of cow- dung cake (aarnia chana) mixed with ash collected from funeral place of dead bodies (cremation ground or Marghat) is followed. Ash act as a repellent, and the insect migrates to other host plants. (e) Growing vines are cared properly and allowed to spread on the water surface. (f) New vines are introduced only in the water bodies where water remains most of the time undisturbed. Too much water waves damage the chada. 4. Traditional way of harvesting raw and ripened singhada In the traditional method, white flowers appear on singhada vines in bhado and aasoj (August-September), singhada fruit formation takes place around sarad (aasoj), and it matures around Diwali (October-November) or kartik month. Picking is done twice a week on rotational basis, and is continued up to 8 weeks, lasting up to Kartik or November. For picking of singhada from the spreading or floating vines in deep water, the growers adopt own ways or approaches, e.g. (a) In mango-growing areas small Content HORTICULTURAL CROPS Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator boats of mango wood of 4-6 feet length with 21/2 feet width and 11/2 feet depth is used for singhada collection. One person can collect 60-100 kg singhada in a day from the floating vines. (b) In other areas a floating structure garnai is prepared by tying 2 earthen pots downward with 2 bamboo sticks, having length of 7-8 feet. At both the ends earthen pots are kept. Garnai remains floating on water. One person sits in the center and collects singhada in earthen pot kept with him. (c) Now-a-days people collect raw singhada. While using rubber tubes, they float with the help of tubes and pluck the raw singhada.