 Nevertheless, the efficacy of digital intervention is dependent upon the level of digital literacy among farmers. Programs that are designed to enhance digital skills are essential for ensuring that farmers are capable of utilising digital tools and platforms effectively. Ultimately, this necessitates the creation of a digital ecosystem that is inclusive and user-friendly and that is tailored to the diverse needs of the agricultural community, through the collaboration of government agencies, financial institutions, and technology providers. Participants identified a few policy interventions that necessitate comprehensive strategies for future implementation. They prioritized on three aspects: 1. Sustainability. 2. Inclusivity and 3. Innovation. There is a consensus among participants that a centralized platform should be established to facilitate the application for credit and the acquisition of information in all agricultural domains. This system would simplify the process of accessing credit-related services. This single system window system shall reduce administrative barriers, enhance transparency, and improve the efficiency of credit delivery (F. Wang, 2018). Further, ho足 listic evaluation approaches that incorporate environmental, social and economic criteria into credit assessments as mentioned by participants will be vital for promoting sustainable agricultural practices. This also align with the recommendations provided by Reserve Bank of India (2019). These approaches encourage financial institutions to consider long - term impacts and risks in their lending decisions, fostering in足 vestments to consider that contribute to environmental conservations and social well-being. Additionally, incentive schemes as proposed by informants will also motivate farmers to adopt environmentally friendly practices. Moreover, as (O'Neill et al., 2021) stated, soil testing provides critical insights into physical, chemical, and biological qualities of soil aiding in sustainable land use and environmental management. The participants suggestion of incorporating soil testing into credit risk as足 sessments can provide critical insights into the sustainability of farming operations, thereby enabling more informed credit decisions that sup足 port the long-term resilience of the agricultural sector (Mahdi et al., 2017). In general, the findings of the study is consistent with the existing literature and offer comprehensive solutions to tackle various policy and psychological gaps in agricultural credit systems. This study is subject to specific limitations. Even though, this research provided valuable insights into transforming agricultural credit systems, the agricultural practices and challenges differ among regions due to variations in climatic conditions, socio-economic conditions, and the availability of infrastructure.