 351 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 xiii. Promotion of skill development in women and youth Strategy 8 : Enabling Policies i. Increasing institutional support by providing subsidises and incentives to small and marginal farmers. ii. Labelling of organic inputs and certification mechanism for various crops. iii. Popularization of Udhyan and Krishak Cards for widespread use of government incentives/ subsidies to farmers. iv. Establishment of seed bank, fodder bank to meet the present and future demand v. Implementation of effective and workable Nursery Act to avoid spurious or unreliable planting material in the state. vi. Ensure sustainable agriculture through more efficient utilization of land, water and other resources. vii. Implementation of Soil Health Card Scheme Strategy 9: Marketing and value addition in specific agro-ecological region i. Creation of direct linkages with food processing industries for better prices especially for pomegranate, ber, custard apple, banana, grape, sorghum. ii. Establishment of strong linkages with various stack holders to furnish information on crop produce and surplus. iii. Establishment of procurement and collection centre for agricultural surplus with proper labelling. iv. Installation of mini grading machines at village level. v. Establishment of cold room in different clusters. Strategy 10: Online Management and Evaluation i. Development of Mobile apps/ software for online management and evaluation at district level. ii. Development of e-Marketing and kiosk at district level to have information of surplus commodities at block level. iii. Organization of monthly review meeting at district to solve the problems related with farmers. iv. Promotion of use of radio, TV talks and use of Whatsapp etc. for effective implementation of program. Summary and Recommendation Farmer’s income in Maharashtra is substantially lower than those who are in other sectors and particularly in service sector. Though he is responsible for feeding ha million his struggle to have comforts in life in in progress despite significant advances in agricultural sciences and 352 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 technologies. Hence aptly though mission for doubling the farmers income by 2022 needs a strategic plan and implementation modules to realize this dream in all the villages of all the 34 districts of Maharashtra and also in Metro districts such as Mumbai where some are involved in urban farming, animal husbandry or dairy and fisheries. Nearly 50% of the geographical area in Maharashtra is under cultivation and half of it depends totally on rains. Only about 18% of the cultivated area has access to irrigation. Despite these constraints the state is contributing significantly to agricultural produces particularly pulses, jowar, sugarcane, grapes, pomegranate etc. with farmer’s active involvements of farmers cooperatives.