 The optimized product has hardness of 1.84 kg, springiness of 0.95, instrumental brightness of 70.52 compared to values of 1.49, 0.96 and 77.42 for wheat flour based reference muffin samples. The mean overall acceptability score of 8.30 is observed in comparison to 8.67 of the reference sample. Jute leaf tea: A health supplement Institute has validated a technology for preparation of jute leaf drink formulation through an external project endorsed by Ministry of Textiles, Government of India. A protocol for harvesting of jute leaves was developed and a rural based solar drying system was also optimized. The jute leaf tea are rich in antioxidant components and prove to be an efficient health supplement. Antioxidant agent Range DPPH 51–94 (IC 50 µg/ml) TPC 8–50 (GAE/g DW) FRAP 1.25–2.5 (mmol Fe2+/g) Wheat gluten based soft nutri-cereal atta Nutri-cereals such as bajra and maize are highly nutritious and are even superior to rice and wheat in various nutritional constituents like iron, zinc, niacin, magnesium, phosphorus, manganese, potassium and vitamins A, B complex etc. They contain high amounts of protein, fibre, essential amino acids like methionine, threonine and tryptophan. Due to the high content of nutrients, these non-conventional grains have health promoting effects equal to or even in higher amount than fruits and vegetables and have a protective effect against diabetes, heart disease, obesity, blood pressure and atherosclerosis. In spite of all these benefits, bajra and maize occupy a lower position in human food chain in comparison to staple food grains and are not popular among consumers due to lack of good dough making quality, which limits their application in routine bakery products and in chapatti making. To address this problem, Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi has developed a technology of vital wheat gluten (VWG) reconstitution in bajra and makka flour and developed products such as Hallur: Soft Bajra Atta and Makai: Soft Makka Atta as good as wheat for superior dough quality. Hallur: Soft Bajra Atta is designed to solve this problem by extracting vital wheat gluten (VWG) protein from wheat flour and regenerating it with bajra flour to improve viscoelastic properties for superior dough and chapatti making quality as good as wheat. The different proportion of VWG regeneration was optimized in bajra flour and tested for several dough quality parameters. The 7–10% VWG was optimized for bajra flour, depending on the purity and water absorption capacity of the extracted VWG. Similarly, dough consistency is the major problem addressed in the product Makai: Soft Makka Atta. A technology of starch gelatinization was exploited in VWG reconstituted makka flour and different percentage of VWG were optimized and further tested for dough quality parameters to make it as superior as wheat flour. Here 5 to 10% VWG reconstitution depends on the quality of extracted VWG.