 Macrocephenchelys sumodi is described based on specimen collected from the deep-sea trawl landing at Kalamukku fish landing centre, Kochi, Kerala, Arabian Sea. Cuapetes purushothamani is described based on specimens collected from dead coral and rocky shore regions of eastern lagoon of Agatti Island (0.5-1.0 m), Lakshadweep, India. Alpheus sulcipalma is described based on the specimens collected from the intertidal zone of Agatti Island, Lakshadweep, India at 0.5- 1.0 m depth. Characterization of whole genome assembly Mangrove red snapper, Lutjanus argentimaculatus, a marine food fish of economic and aquaculture importance was found to comprise genome of 1.04 Gb length containing 521 scaffolds with N50 metric of 32.5 Mb. The longer 24 (equal to haploid chromosome number) scaffolds covered about 768 Mb of genome length. Further, the mangrove red snapper genome has been predicted to contain 31,969 protein encoding genes. The whole genome information provides a new perspective for the genomics studies of cultivable mangrove red snapper with potential applications in the management and selective breeding programmes in future. Decoded the whole genome of Indian oil sardine (Sardinella longiceps), a popular marine food fish. This is the first time that the genome of a marine fish species from the Indian subcontinent has been decoded. The decoded genome is 1.077 Gb in size and contains 46,316 protein coding genes. This fish is a trans-boundary Mangrove red snapper, Lutjanus argentimaculatus Genome assembly of mangrove red snapper. Track 1 (outermost) – representation of assembly scaffolds; Track 2 – contigs in corresponding scaffolds; Track 3 – predicted genes and their lengths; Track 4 – isoform sequences supporting genes; Track 5 – short RNA sequence reads supporting genes; Track 6 (innermost) – GC content. National Fish Museum and Repository at ICAR-NBFGR, Lucknow resource and the whole genome information can also be utilised for certification of the fishery and identification of the origin of catch for monitoring clandestine trade and tracking the movement of this enigmatic fish. Genetic and genomic investigations showed that Indian oil sardines exist in two highly distinct stocks, one in the Indian waters and another in the Gulf of Oman. The genome assembly of the sardines is a valuable tool for studying how fish adapt to climate change. Also identified the genes involved in biosynthesis of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) of the oil sardine, offering insights into the genomic mechanisms behind the high nutritional quality of these sardines. GENETIC RESOURCES ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 65 National Fish Museum and Repository dedicated to the Nation National Fish Museum and Repository established at the ICAR-NBFGR, Lucknow, was dedicated to the nation on 14 April, 2023 by the Hon’ble Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR.