5-4%, if they had the same access to productive resources and training as men. Women constitute about 33% of cultivators and about 47% of agricultural labourers (MANAGE 2021). For adding more power to the agriculture sector, recognizing women and strengthening their status from farm to home is the need of the hour. Women empowerment through agro-based enterprise is an emerging solution for establishment of their powerful status and overall development of the society. Keywords: Agriculture, Agro-based enterprise, Society, Women empowerment I NDIAN rural women are considered as backbone of agriculture and for rural India, agricultural sector is only source of livelihood security and socio-economic upliftment. This sector is the largest contributor to India’s GDP, economic development and mainly depend on the women farmer as they play the role of more than 75% of full time labour at the farm according to international humanitarian group OXFAM. The role of Indian women farmer can be elaborated as 85% of their population engaged in agricultural activities, 47% women involved in tree plantation and cotton cultivation, 45% involved in growing oilseeds, 39% in cultivating vegetables and most importantly approximately 60-80% of food produced by them. Indian women play a significant role in agriculture and allied sector since ages which does not need any validation. Women in agriculture and allied sector Indian rural women play a significant and crucial role in the agriculture and allied sector. The nature and the extent of work performed by the women farmer vary from region to region. According to Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR 2020), the participation of women is 75% in the production of major crops, 79% in horticulture, 51% in post-harvest work and 95% in animal husbandry and fisheries. Women participation in India gradually increased from 19.67 to 29.56% from 1981-2021 in agriculture and allied sector activities. Because of the migration of male farmers towards cities for alternative source of income generation, the agriculture sector is primarily taken care of by the female counterpart leading to disproportionate concentration of women in agriculture. This phenomenon was termed as 'feminization of agriculture' by Economic Survey, 2017- 18. Generally their work can be categorized as labour intensive (paid labour), cultivator and farm manger (supervisor) depending on the socio-economic status of their family. The work performed by them ranges from sowing, transplanting, weeding, irrigation, fertilizer application, nursery management, harvesting, storage, marketing etc. In case of dairy, all the work related to raising of dairy animals eg. feeding, watering, milking, cleaning of animal and sheds, preparation of dung cake, collection of farmyard manure, fodder collection etc. generally performed by them. In case of poultry farming, women participation at household level is central. It is one of the major sources of rural economy.