 RESULT AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study The survey report indicated that 40-84% of the cattle owners and the farmers of different districts of Vidarbha region had the knowledge about the use of bhangariya as a medicinal remedy for animals. Experiment Out of 20 animals including cattle, buffaloes and goats, treated with ITK, 9 were cured within 3-10 days of the treatment, indicating the anti- inflammatory effects of the ITK to reduce swelling. CONCLUSION Results of limited study indicated that the use of paste of bhangariya is effective in controlling inflammatory swelling in animals.  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 1281 Title of the ITK : Control of bovine mastitis using fermented leaves of bathua (Chenopodium album) as topical application Description of the ITK : Mastitis is a common ailment especially in high-yielding cattle and buffaloes. It is not only injurious to the animal but also spoils the milk produced by the diseased animal. To control mastitis a few grams of green Chenopodium album is boiled in one litre water and the fermentation is used to wash the teats and udder of diseased cattle and buffalo 1-2 times a day. The animal gets relief by this practice, which involves almost no cost. This treatment is followed by the farmers of many villages of Badaun and Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh. Uses Chenopodium is a plant with multiple uses As food it is consumed in a number of foodstuffs. The tender shoots are eaten raw as salad or cooked as green vegetable. Batua ka parantha is a delicacy in north west India. A sample of 100 g leaves contains 3.7 g protein, 0.4 g fat, 2.9 g carbohydrate, 150 mg calcium, 80 mg phosphorus, 1.74 mg vitamin A, 0.4 mg vitamin B2 (riboflavin), 0.5 mg niacin and 3.5 mg vitamin C. The seeds are cooked like rice or oatmeal or sometime with dal. It is also an important source of food for livestock and poultry. As such, it is used in variety of preparations depending on the local taste and preferences. In medicinal properties it has antiscorbutic, diuretic and nutritive properties. It has been used to treat various symptoms attributable to nutritional deficiencies like anaemia. It is also said to have sedative and anti-refrigerant properties, thus the leaves are also used to soothe burns. Poultice is used as topical application in headache or sunburn. However, no literature was available on use of Chenopodium to control mastitis. Name and address of the discloser : Dr (Ms) Shagufta Jamal, Department of Adult and Continuing Education and Extension, Jamia Milia Islamia University, Jamia Nagar, New Delhi 110 025 Location of use of the ITK : This ITK is in use in many villages of Badaun and Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Geographical indicator Commonly known as bathua, wild spinach, Lamb's-quarters and pigweed, it is a nutritious leafy vegetable of the beetroot and palak family i.e. Chenopodiaceae.