25 Ab Ab Treated after 24 hr Puntius sophore (darhee) 6.23 Nil 4.60 Ab P H. fossile (singhi) 6.22 Nil 4.84 Ab Ab N. notopterus (patola) 6.00 Nil Ab Ab Basilius bola (murrela) 5.24 Nil 5.60 Ab Ab Ab, Absent; P, present. nutritional quality of fish. iv. Smoked fish showed less microbial growth than the untreated fish. The smoked fish were tested for human consumption in respect of microbial counts and were found satisfactory even after 24 hours, whereas the untreated fish were not considered satisfactory. v. Use of ITK helped in keeping the fish for 24 hours without significant loss in quality, consumability, marketability and in fetching market price. vi. The liking of smoked fish varies from place to place. CONCLUSION Results of the study indicate that smoking of the fish, as done by the fishermen under study, could be an effective method in preventing spoilage during the period from fishing to its sale and maintaining nutritional quality of fish.   FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Code : 1712 Title of the ITK : Vinegar of jamun (Syzygium cumini) Description of the ITK : Jamun (Szygium cumini), a multipurpose fruit is generally oblong or round in shape, deep purple or blackish blue in colour, having juicy sweet pulp and stone. Ripe fruits are collected in earthen pots, covered and sealed properly with paste of wheat/rice flour. After making the pot airtight, it is kept under sun for at least 15 days for fermentation, and the fermented juice is ready for use. In tribal villages like Samtoli of Simdega district people use vinegar/syrup of jamun for curing sugar, diarrhoea, heart and liver ailments. About 98% of farmers in the village use this age-old practice. Name and address of the discloser : Ms Prabha Bara, Pathalkudwa, Church Lane, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 001 Location of use of the ITK : Samtoli, Semdega (Jharkhand) Geographical indicators : Jamum (Syzyquem cumini) is large ever green tree attaining 30 m. in height and 3_6 in girth with bole up to 15 m, found throughout India, up to an attitude of 1,800 mm. The flowers are greenish. The tree grows widely in differing localities, but is generally found in streams and in damped places Experimenter : Dr (Ms) N. Bara, Scientist, Department of Extension Education; Dr R.P. Singh `Ratan', Head, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand), Dr A. P Singh, Head, Department of Animal Nutrition, Ranchi Veterinary College, Ranchi and, Dr (Ms) Manorama, Mishra, Head, Department of Home Science, Ranchi Women's College, Ranchi (Jharkhand) METHODOLOGY Location The study was carried out in village Samtoli, Simdega (Jharkhand). PRA and field study The study was conducted in village Samtoli of Simdega district, from where this ITK was disclosed. Vinegar of jamun, as reported by the discloser was found to be an important beverage made by tribals through indigenous techniques and popular for its medicinal value.