 Keywords: dried rice, rice balls, curry 2735 Preperation of bhatugi from kachalu leaves Bhatugi is prepared from the deliciousimmature leaves of Colocasia sp. (kachalu). This food dish is very delicious and nutritive, and it improves digestion. The leaves of Colocasia sp. are cooked over steam (usually over a closed container used for the preparation of rice). Then the leaves are crushed and fried in mustard oil as usual for other vegetables are fried. This dish is then eaten with rice or chapati. This ITK is in use throughout the Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh. Keywords: Colocasia sp. (kachalu), bhatugi, rice Shri Bovinder Chand Katoch Research Fellow, Departmnet of Biosciences, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2733 Use of bael (Aegle marmelos) as a natural medicinal fruit More than 60 % villagers of Jiruli village of Ganjam district in Orissa are using this medicinal fruit since the last 20 years. The bael tree is considered sacred by the Hindus. They offer its leaves to Lord Shiva during worship. Its fruits and leaves possess an evaporating oil that is very good for human system. The leaves absorb foul gases from the atmosphere and keep it clean and salubrious whereas the raw bael fruit produces heat and has purgative effect. The ripe fruit has cooling effect and causes constipation. Raw bael fruit is consumed for treatment of ailments such as arthritis and gout. Ripe fruits are taken during summer to keep the body and mind cool. Bael also helps to sharpen the intellect and concentrate the mind. The bael has quality of preventing the diseases and has therapeutic values. The medicinal value of bael fruit is enhanced due to the presence of tannin, the evaporating substance, in its rind. The rind contains 20% and the pulp has only 9 % of tannin. This substance helps to cure diabetes. Other uses are given below. A. Uses Dr Saswati Parichha Training Associate (Home Science), KVK Bhanjanagar, Dihapodhala, Ganjam (Orissa) 751 003  1. For asthma: About 5 g bael leaves are ground and a spoonful of honey is added. It is taken orally in morning and evening for relief. 2. For anaemia: Pulp of bael is extracted. It is dried and ground to powder form. One teaspoonful of this powder is added to boiled cow milk along with some sugar candy. It is taken twice a day in morning and evening for a long period. 3. For fracture: The pulp of raw bael is extracted. It is dried and ground to a powder form. Ten gram bael powder, 50 g pure ghee and ½ teaspoonful turmeric powder are mixed with a glass of lukewarm water. It is stirred well and taken orally twice a day. 4. For healing of wound: Root, rind, leaves and fruit pulp are taken in equal quantity. These are ground to extract juice. About 10 g honey is added and it is drunk. 5. For swollen joints: Raw bael pulp is mixed with hot mustard oil and it is applied on the affected part, twice a day, during morning and evening for relief. 6.