 Selective attrition and survey mode effects We first explore differential attrition as a source of difference by survey mode. Table 1 presents household midline characteristics of the 1525 households that enumerators attempted to contact by phone, which constitute the portion of the sampling frame common to both modes. Column 1 reports means and standard deviations among all households in this population. 711 of these were randomly selected for in-person surveying out of which 698 responded, described in Column 2. Column 3 describes the 1266 households that responded to the phone survey. Columns 4 and 5 report the in-person and phone sample deviations from the sampling frame, respectively. The top panel Journal of Development Economics 166 (2024) 103199 4 E. Anderson et al. Fig. 1. Deciles of production quantity by survey mode. Notes: Self-reported production volume at each decile by crop and by survey mode. Data for each crop includes only those who reported positive area for that crop at midline, and were therefore asked about production of that crop at endline. Top production values are Winsorized to the 95th percentile independently by crop and by mode before computing mean. reports outcomes asked of all study participants, and the bottom panel reports responses from the extended midline subsample. Attrition was low in person, and endline respondents closely resem- ble the sampling frame. The only statistically significant deviation is in caste distribution, where there is a slightly lower sampled fraction belonging to a Scheduled Caste or Tribe, almost fully accounted for by Other Backward Castes. All other deviations are quantitatively small and statistically insignificant, consistent with random sampling variation. By contrast, phone survey respondents appear to be selected along typical dimensions. Households in the phone sample are more educated, with heads four percentage points more likely to have com- pleted primary and secondary school, and appear to be wealthier across a range of measures. Phone respondents are less likely to engage in sharecropping, own more assets, are more likely to live in a permanent housing structure, and are less likely to use government assistance such as workfare (MNREGA) or food aid (PDS). These differences in wealth and education are consistent with selection bias commonly observed in phone surveys (see Ambel et al., 2021; Zezza et al., 2022, and citations within). While the demographic character of phone respondents is associated with greater agricultural output in general, sample selection alone cannot account for measured production gaps between survey modes. To quantify the importance of attrition, we take advantage of the 584 households that responded both in person and by phone, in 429 of which the same individual responded to both surveys.