 Capsule rot/Panicle rot disease managed through ICAR-NBAIR bio-agents Clump rot: It is otherwise called as rhizome rot occurs during monsoon period. This disease is widely distributed across cardamom growing regions in Kerala and Karnataka as well as heavy rainfall areas of Tamil Nadu such as the Anamalai hills. This disease is caused by combined infection of Pythium vexans, Rhizoctonia solani and Fusarium sp. Rotting symptoms develop at the collar region resulting in softening and bristling of the tissue. The tiller breaks at this point with a discolouration, and the infected tissue in the detached portion emits a foul smell. The developing tillers of the infected plants detach from their rhizome portion with Indian Farming a slight pull. Generally, root rotting and subsequent yellowing of plants are associated with the disease. Rotting at the collar region in softening and bristling of the tissue This disease was addressed through soil application by aconsortium of ICAR-NBAIR-Pseudomonas fluorescens (Pf5) and ICAR-NBAIR-Bacillus subtilis (Bs45) and soil application of ICAR-NBAIR-Trichoderma harzianum multiplied in a mixture of decomposed coffee compost and cow dung at 50g/clump during May-June and August-September. Ex-trainee of ICAR-KVK, Idukki Mr. Srinivasan from Santhanpara village in the Idukki district has been involved in the bio-control program since 2011. Approximately 5.25 ha are cultivated by him for small cardamom. When it came to crop productivity, he previously employed more chemical herbicides and fertilizers. It was via ICAR-KVK, Idukki that Mr. Srinivasan participated in a number of training programs. The vermicompost he uses, generated on his own farms, amounts to approximately 200 q annually. He started multiplying ICAR-NBAIR bio-agents and selling approximately 300 liters of various bio-agents and gaining an extra %4,50,000 annually. Fusarium rot: This disease is also called as stem rot or stems lodging, normally appears during post-monsoon period. The disease was first reported in the cardamom plantations of Idukki district. This disease is caused by a fungus Fusarium oxysporum. The pathogen usually attacks middle portion of the tillers and produces a pale discoloured lesion leading to dry rotting. The infected tillers are weakened at the point of infection and leads to partial breakage of the tillers. The partially broken tillers bend down and hang from the point of infection. The infected tillers fall off and give lodged appearance if the infection occurs at lower part of the tillers.