 To attract students to higher agricultural education and achieve excellence in teaching, research and capacity building of faculty in the cutting-edge areas of agriculture and allied science subjects, ICAR operates several schemes for faculty such as ICAR Post-doctoral Fellowship, National Professor/National Fellow Scheme, Emeritus Professors and Emeritus Scientists, Summer/Winter Schools (SWS) and Short Courses, and Centre of Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT). The Agricultural Education system has institutionalized and upscaled e-Courses; e-Learning Portal on Agriculture Education or e-Krishi Shiksha; Open and Distance Learning System; AgriLORE platform; Consortium for e-Resources in Agriculture (CeRA) and Digital Library to promote digital learning. With an objective for globalization of higher agricultural education, ICAR has initiated India-Africa and India- Afghanistan Fellowship Programmes and other International Fellowships such as Netaji Subhas-ICAR International Fellowship and BIMSTEC (Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi- Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation) Scholarship. Indian Agriculture: Achievements and Aspirations 21 Agri-entrepreneurship has been an integral part of the higher agricultural education. A new programme, Student READY (Rural Entrepreneurship Awareness Development Yojana), has been introduced as integral part of 12 months with the last year of the UG programme. The programme includes Experiential Learning (Business Mode), Experiential Learning - Hands on Training (Skill development), Rural Awareness Work Experience (RAWE), In Plant Training/Industrial attachment/Internship and Student Project. An institutional mechanism of “Dean’s Committee’ is in place for periodic revision and improvement of course curricula to meet the changing demand of higher agricultural education. A roadmap has been prepared to implement the provisions provided in the New Education Policy (NEP) (2020) for further improving the agricultural education system in India. Detail achievements in agricultural education are presented in Chapter 13. 4.8. Agricultural extension ICAR has been engaged in development of efficient and effective technology transfer systems for shortening the time lag between technology generation and adoption. The extension system in the country has renewed itself over time from its primordial land grant college pattern of education and top to bottom approach of transfer of technology (ToT). It has shifted its way from input centric production-oriented ToT to income augmenting and market-led diversified technologies and to on-the-job vocational training, complete centralized funding to decentralized bottom to top approach (e.g., ATMA), sustainable agricultural practices and so on.