 Bio-intensive management of powdery mildew in grape: Application of chitosan @ 2 ml/ha in combination with Ampelomyces quisqualis (5 g/l) resulted in efficient management of powdery mildew as well as resulted in residue compliant quality grapes. Management of bacterial blight: Foliar applications of Mancozeb 75 WDG (2.5 g/l) at the onset of the bacterial blight preceded with three sprays of Bacillus subtilis (2 g/l) gave the best control of bacterial blight in grapes. Characterization of pathogen associated with lethal wilt disease of coconut: The pathogen associated with lethal wilt disease of coconut prevalent in Thanjavur, Thiruvarur and Pudukottai districts of Tamil Nadu was characterized by multilocus sequencing as ‘Candidatus Phytoplasmaasteris’-related strain belonging to 16SrI group. Identification of substrate for entomopathogenic fungus: Wheat bran was observed to be the ideal substrate for the mass multiplication of the Simplicillium lanosoniveum, a potential entomopathogenic fungus on rugose spiralling whitefly, Aleurodicus rugioperculatus. Eggs, nymphs and puparia of the exotic rugose spiralling First report of an isolate of fungus, Metarhizium pingshaense infecting Conogethes punctiferalis An entomopathogenic fungus, Metarhizium pingshaense was isolated from an infected larva of Conogethes punctiferalis (Crambidae: Lepidoptera), a highly polyphagous pest. Bioassay studies of the fungus showed that it is very virulent to C. punctiferalis, causing more than 86% mortality to fifth instar larvae at 1×108 spores/ml. The median lethal concentration (LC50) of the fungus against late instar larvae was 9.1×105 conidia/ml and the median survival time (MST) of late instar larvae tested at the doses of 1×108 and 1×107 conidia/ml were 4.7 and 6.4 days, respectively. The optimal temperature for fungal growth and sporulation was observed to be 25±1°C. This is the first report of M. pingshaense naturally infecting C. punctiferalis. Isolation of a highly virulent strain of this fungus holds promise towards development of a potential myco-insecticide against this pest. Sporulating cadaver of Conogethes punctiferalis infected by Metarhizium pingshaense Plastic mulching in YLD affected arecanut garden Integrated management of fungal diseases in tomato: For management of fungal diseases in tomato, a biological module has been standardized which is effective and economical. It comprises of seed treatment by talc-based formulation of Trichoderma sp. (BATF- 43-1) @ 1%, nursery soil application (25 g/m2) of talc- based Trichoderma sp. (BATF-43-1), seedling root dip in slurry (10 g + 100 g vermicompost + 250 ml water) of BATF-43-1, drenching (1%) by BATF-43-1, thrice at 25 days interval started 25 DAT. It resulted no root rot and wilt disease in the field while minimum early blight severity on foliage (65.41%), Phytophthora rotted fruits were 66.4% out of total diseased fruits, maximum marketable yield (459.64 q/ha) with B:C ratio of 1: 1.76.