 But during the last 5-6 years it has been observed that rains are received during November/ December. During this time new growth of leaves, branch, bolls etc. is observed from stubbles of cotton plants. In this crop only weeding operation is done. The flush of flowers get matured within 2 months and farmers obtain 4-6 q/ha of cotton yield. Keywords: ratooning of cotton Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of high concentration of urea for the control of noxious weeds in sugarcane To control the monocotyledonous weeds in sugarcane crop, farmers of Pandharpur tehsil of Solapur district use solution of urea (15 % concentration). High concentration of urea affects stomatal activity and scorching is seen over the leafy portion of the weeds and growth of plants is hindered. Keywords: high concentration of urea, noxious weeds, sugarcane, stomatal activity Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Yield increase of sugarcane by irrigating the crop during navaratra Farmers of Malshiras tehsil of Solapur and middle part of Ahmednagar district irrigate sugarcane crop during navaratra period. By this practice yield increases by 2 t/ha. Keywords: sugarcane, irrigation, navaratra Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2302 Use of low-cost technologies for agro-economic production Farmers of Agra division are following these practices: Crop based ITK (a) Oilseeds: (i) Advance sowing of mustard (up to September end) on rain- conserved moisture in place of October sowing (at 27 degree centigrade optimum temperature, with pre-sowing irrigation) gives higher yield and also saves the crop from aphids. It has widely been accepted by the farmers of Agra region. (ii) By raising toria in September- October, control of weeds is possible, and it saves at least 3 ploughings @ Rs 200/ha, compared to fallow in maize-wheat rotation as against Dr O. P. Rajput Cropping Systems Research Project (ICAR), Department of Agronomy, R.B.S. College, Bichpuri Agra (Uttar Pradesh) 283 105  maize-toria-wheat sequence. (iii) Thinning at 15-18 days after sowing in mustard is done to maintain 15 cm plant-to-plant distance or to achieve nearly 1.5 lakh plants per ha which increases yield by 5-10 percent. (iv) Topping of main stem of mustard (15 cm from top) at 35- 40 days or before flowering increases yield by 15-20 percent. (v) Early sowing of sesame increases phyllody disease; hence early sowing is avoided. (vi) In sorghum (fodder)-mustard sequence use of gypsum @ 8q/ha provides more profit.