 The Jagjivan Ram Kisan Puruskar has been awarded to a farmer from village Jajanpur, Dist Kaithal, Haryana, for organic/natural farming of 6 vegetables with cost-saving cultural practices. The first N G Ranga Farmer Award has been given away for development of diversified agriculture for small and marginal tribal farmers of Maharashtra (Appendix 11). TECHNICAL CO-ORDINATION Financial Support to Scientific Societies Financial assistance with the approval of the Standing Finance Committee has been provided to 51 scientific societies for publication of journals to 23 societies and academic universities for holding national seminars/symposia/conferences and to 3 societies for holding International Seminars/Symposia/Conferences. A meeting for evaluation/review of grading of scientific journals was organized. Research Advisory Committee Constitution of Research Advisory Committee (RAC) was co-ordinated and the proceedings of the RAC meetings were reviewed for obtaining approval of the Director-General, ICAR. Assistance and monitoring DARE/ICAR Annual Report 2001-02 and Highlights of achievements of A.P. Cess Fund Supported Schemes Manuscript pertaining to DARE/ICAR Annual Report 2001-02 and significant achievements of A.P. Cess Fund supported schemes have been co-ordinated between the corresponding scientists and the DIPA. Monthly Summary Complied monthly summary on major research achievements, exports, import and other related matters of all the Institutes/Project Directorates was submitted to Cabinet, Government of India, and other related departments. Support to DSIR Evaluated, processed and provided comments on various proposals submitted by the private organizations to the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR), Government of India, for recognition of Research and Development Units of private organizations related to agriculture. Best Annual Report Awards The award of ‘Best Annual Report Awards’ for 1999-2000 to the ICAR Institutes has gone to Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Bhopal and National Centre for Agricultural Economics and Policy Research, New Delhi. ICAR International Training Programmes ICAR’s International Training Programmes - 2002 document material has been collected from all ICAR Institutes and SAUs, compiled, collated and co-ordination is being done with the DIPA for its publication. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 212 International co-operation The International Cooperation in the ICAR/DARE has been operating through the MoU/Work Plans signed with various countries/international organizations with ICAR/DARE as a Nodal Department and through participation of ICAR/DARE in MoUs/Work Plans signed by the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation as Nodal Department. In addition, Ministry of Science and Technology has developed programmes of co-operation with various countries and international organizations in which ICAR/DARE is the participating agency in the field of agricultural research.