 Kutchi milk Incorporating sugar partly in caramelised form could reduce manufacturing time of kunda as well as energy consumption PATENTS FILED ● ●● ●● A cream separator attachment for mixies and food processors ● Instant Makhana Kheer Mix ● A simle quick and sensitive method for staining of proteins on nitrocellulose membrane ● The Model Dairy Plant was granted Quality Certification ISO 9002: 1994 and Food Safety (IS 15000:1998) HACCP by the Bureau of Indian Standard on 12 September 2000 LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 121 having lowest pH had significantly higher titrable acidity. Parity has significant effect on milk yield and milk pH. Animals in second and fifth parity yielded higher milk/day. As the parity advanced, the milk pH increased. Rest of the milk traits remained unaffected due to parity of animals. The highest milk yield was recorded in second week of lactation. As the lactation period advanced, fat content and pH steadily increased whereas casein content declined. Total solids content was highest in last stage of lactation, but SNF, ash and TA remained unaffected. MEAT AND POULTRY BYPRODUCTS Meat Production and Carcass Quality Heavier Jamunapari goat carcass weight classes within each age category having higher loin eye area produced higher back fat and breast fat thickness and higher dressing percentage. The carcass and non-carcass fat decreased with increase in age. Goat meat could safely be preserved for 3 months under frozen (-18±2°C) conditions without significant loss in eating quality. Recovery of coliforms and faecal streptococci was better by pour plate method in comparison to resuscitation method. Frozen storage arrested the multiplication of viable faecal indicator organisms. Effect of dietary sodium bicarbonate levels on carcass and meat quality of sheep indicated that the loin eye area as an index of muscle growth was also lower in control compared to groups supplemented with sodium bicarbonate. The growth rate and dressing yield improved by supplementing sodium bicarbonate. Carcass and meat quality characteristics of sheep and goat maintained on 50:50 roughage: concentrate ration indicated that the dressing yield and muscle growth of yearling sheep were higher than goats. Further, under similar feeding regimen the sheep deposited more carcass and depot fat than goats, whereas, the meat acceptability score was similar for the two species. Replacement of soya-meal substitution with mustard-cake as protein source even up to 100% did not have visible impact on carcass traits of finisher kits slaughtered at 12 weeks of age. The smaller the number of animals/cage the better the carcass yield and quality. Quality aspects: Status of carcass contamination, decontamination with lactic acid and storage stability at chilling indicated that live animals themselves and ruminal surface were most contaminated part.