 In fruit trees if damaged by shoot borers is noticed then prevent them by pulling out the borers from the holes of the damaged shoots and injecting petrol or kerosene into the damaged holes and plugging the holes with mud or clay Apply fertilizer (basal) in fruit crops as per recommendation In mango if die-back symptoms appear then prune the dead woods upto 5-10 cm green portion is advisable and spray copper oxychloride (0.3%) twice at 15 days interval. In mango if symptoms of gummosis are seen, scratch the affected part and clean the surface after that apply Bordeaux paste on affected portion. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 329 In mango deblossom the early emerged panicles for minimizing the floral mango malformation Guava: Pruning the lower branches up to a height of 50-75-cms and cut the growing shoot to encourage lateral branches preferably in the east -west direction for better sunlight exposure. Pomegranate: Remove old, disease and pest affected branches, to manage mealy bug as a preventive measure, fastened, 25cm width Polythene (400gauge) strip around tree trunk. Keep orchard clean. If infestation is observed, take spray of Thiamethoxam 25WG@0.25gm/Ltr or Imidaclopird 17 SL@0.35ml/Ltr or Dimethoate 30 EC@2ml/Ltr of water. Ber: To control powdery mildew spray 0.25 percent wettable sulphur (250 g in 100 litres of water) or 0.05% Karathane 40EC (50 ml in 100 litres of water) Acid lime: spray comprehensive micronutrient solution to overcome micro nutrient deficiencies Intercropping of vegetables between tree plants. Mango, Pomegranate, Citrus and sapota require to irrigate at 10-12 days. This will improve humidity under their canopy and reduce cracking of fruits. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 330 Use of pesticide spray for controlling pests and diseases after consulting scientist of nearest KVK High wind speed may lodge banana stem support the stem to prevent from lodging General Guidelines for Animal Husbandry In winter/Rabi season, extreme metrological variation leads to drastic drop in temperature during December and January months, during this, it’s hard to manage livestock and hence it’s really important to take proper care of livestock animals. Provide proper shelter to the animals during winters. Ventilation should be proper no ammonia or nitrogen gas in the shed as it causes pneumonia or other diseases. Floor should be clean, dry and bedding with straws which acts as insulation and prevents heat loss. Curtains should be used in the sheds of loose housing system to obstruct the flow of wind at animal’s level. Curtains can be made from tarpuline, bamboo, dry grass, guinea bags, jute etc. Provide proper clean water to the animals, avoid chilled water as it will decrease metabolism of body and will affect the production of animals. Improve body reserves of the animals by providing nutritious and balanced diet during winters.