 Positioned in soil or irrigation systems, pH sensors provide continuous pH measurements, empowering farmers to adjust soil amendments or water treatment strategies, select appropriate crops, and prevent nutrient imbalances Image Sensor(Camera) Takes pictures of any object Disease detection, chlorophyll status, Fruit ripeness, Leaf area index (LAI), Harvest readiness, Soil erosion and other analysis gyro sensor to determine Global Positioning | Measuring the latitude and | Local information is System(GPS) longitude of device, | attached to generate alerts. location. Mostly used for machine driving &control, and tracking, land management and Crop mapping. Inertial Sensor Uses accelerometer and | Precise distance of plant, leaf or any other object is the tilting motion and orientation of the object the object altitude in | measured from camera relation to the _ inertial system Barometer Measure air pressure as an | Measures the elevation altimeter. Mostly used in | height in hilly agriculture correcting altitude measurements by the GPS Gyroscope Senses the angular velocity | Equipment movement, to track the object rotation | Canopy structure or twist measurement Accelerometer Measures acceleration | Precise movement or forces that used to observe | rotation of the camera during use. Detect workers or machine activities Microphone Detect usual / unusual sound and_ convert to electrical signals Machine maintenance , Bug detection to make audio queries TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 44 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 45 Precision agriculture relies on GNSS/NavIC/GPS technology to provide accurate and real-time location data for farming equipment, allowing farmers to navigate their fields precisely. This helps optimize the use of resources such as water, fertilizers, and pesticides. Satellite technology is becoming an invaluable tool in modern agriculture, providing a bird's- eye view of large agricultural landscapes. Remote sensing satellites capture data in various spectra, offering insights into crop health, land use, and environmental conditions. Drones also have many applications for agricultural field surveillance and remote diagnostics of agronomic conditions such as plant and crop diseases, water resources and soil quality. Thus, Integration of remote sensing, satellite imagery and drone technology in agriculture is transforming traditional farming practices into data-driven, precision-based systems. Benefits of Precision Agriculture: Resource Efficiency: Precision agriculture optimizes the use of resources, reducing waste, environmental impact and also results in cost savings for farmers. This includes precise application of fertilizers and pesticides, targeted irrigation, and efficient use of fuel for farming equipment.