 The “compass” refers to the new course set for agricultural water management, such as with new priorities for crops, water systems, farmer livelihoods and changes in the water system. The degree of reform in agricultural water management is largely co-determined by biophysical and social limitations discussed in the previous section. Having outlined and visualised the theoretical construct of a reorien- tation, variables and indicators are needed (George and Bennett, 2005) to empirically study a reorientation. Following Baron and Kenny (1986) we distinguish four sorts of variables to study causal mechanisms: inde- pendent variables (starting points for change), dependent variables (outcomes to be explained), mediating variables (which relate the inde- pendent variable to the dependent variable) and moderating variables (which modify the relation between the independent and dependent variables). Due to the complexity of understanding reform in agricul- tural water management, we interpret variables as a set of interrelated qualitative descriptors and not as a set of quantitative descriptors which are assessed statistically. Thus, the Compass framework contains the following six variables: • Independent variable A: shifts in broader societal priorities • Mediating variable B: status quo of agricultural water management as manifest in a constellation of plans, policies, farming practices, land and water resources a region (say, region X), before societal priorities shifted • Moderating variable C: efforts to adjust agricultural water management to accommodate shifted priorities • Moderating variable D: other factors (to account for inclusion of case- speciﬁc explanatory factors) • Mediating variable E: agricultural water management accommodating shifted priorities in region X, as manifest in a constellation of plans, poli- cies, farming practices, land and water resources • Dependent variable F: the degree that reform in agricultural water man- agement accommodates the shift in societal priorities. A reorientation process is then analysed through the different variables and their interlinkages. The interrelation between shifting societal priori- ties and reform in agricultural water management is centrally captured in the Compass framework through variables A, B, E and F. Variable C and D are included to convert the framework from a largely descriptive frame- work that describes the degree to which a reorientation occurs (variable F) as the difference between variables B and E, to a descriptive- explanatory framework which also explains why agricultural water man- agement has changed. Variable B and E both capture agricultural water management as manifest in a constellation, yet they do so in a different timespan using partly different indicators (see Table 1) that justiﬁes the use of separate variables B and E. Indicators are thus used to measure the variables.