 But lack of dependable advice on agriculture (technology, marketing, value addition) and lack of organizations that can support farmers have effectively blocked the prospects of diversifying to other crops or enterprises. Solving these constraints require co-ordinated effort at the field level by all agricultural development organizations of the district. The NCAP is presently playing a key role as a facilitator to bring the different agencies together and to provide necessary technical backstopping to farmers by linking them with different agricultural research institutes. This outreach activity is considered as a field laboratory by the Centre and the experiences with the implementation of this project are expected to provide lessons on how the recommendations of a research project gets translated into action in the field. SOCIAL SCIENCES AND POLICIES 165 estimation of capital requirements to achieve a target rate of growth in output, or to derive the expected growth rate once the capital position is clear. Therefore, ICOR values were calculated at the country and state levels for each year since 1969–70 to 1998–99. The study also assessed the adequacy of current level of investment by states for attaining the target rate of growth in the agriculture sector. The realization of target growth rate in agriculture depends on the quantum of investment in agriculture, its regional pattern of deployment, and its use efficiency. The analysis of ICOR demonstrated considerable variability in the ICOR across the states and this variability has not reduced over time. Therefore, using a single ICOR estimate for the entire country by the Planning Commission has altered the normative allocation of resources for agricultural development across the states. Compared to the northern states, the ICOR is lower in eastern and southern states. These are the states where additional investment will have larger impact on agricultural productivity. The investment requirement in agriculture is much higher than that assumed by the Planning Commission on the basis of its much lower estimates for ICOR. With the current trend in investment growth, agriculture will grow only @ 3.01% per annum. This falls short of the targeted 4.5% level. To realize the target growth rate in the X Plan, the investment in agriculture should grow at an annual rate of 7.91%, as compared to the present level of 4.95%. Another dimension to this issue is its regional variability. The present trends in investment may result in negative growth in agriculture in most of the eastern and north-eastern states. Immediate attention is required to check further widening of regional disparity in agricultural development. These states would require special emphasis, because of their higher capital use efficiency, and higher concentration of rural poor. In hilly and large states, improvement in the capital use efficiency should be the priority.