 32 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK ●Open tenders will be called for works costing ` 5 lakh and above, and limited tenders will be called for works costing less than ` 5 lakh. ●Execution of contract agreement or award of work should be done before commencement of the work. ●Final payment for work shall be made only on the basis of the certificate of the officer-in charge of work after the satisfactory execution of work, in the prescribed format. (c) Vehicles management ●The vehicles have to be maintained properly. All vehicles/tractors records including logbooks should be maintained properly. The average mileage has to be calculated and a summary statement should be recorded at the end of each month. Competent authority should attest the monthly summary. New vehicle in replacement can be purchased only after obtaining approval from ICAR. ●In the case of replacement of vehicle, the procedure laid down by the ICAR should be followed. The proposal has to be submitted to the ICAR in the prescribed proforma through ZPD after satisfying the conditions stipulated in the DFPRs of 1978, along with vehicle inspection report from competent authority. 33 Recommendations 4.6 Financial management 4.6.1 Budget release and implementation ●In the case of KVKs under SAUs/CAU/DUs/State Governments, funds are released by the ICAR to the Head of the Finance and Accounts Wing of these organizations, who in turn should transfer the funds to the respective KVK’s Account without any delay, under intimation to the ZPD. The fund should be invariably transferred through electronic mode. ●In the first week of September, each KVK should submit the Revised Estimate for the current year and Budget Estimate for the succeeding year containing the requirement of funds in specific budgetary format as per EFC for approved activities to the ZPD. Similarly, the Directors of Extension Education shall furnish the BE/RE to the Zonal Project Director for overseeing the KVK activities. ●The interest earned under short-term deposits should be credited to the KVK’s main account. Similarly, the amount realized on auction of condemned vehicles, equipment, furniture and other items including license fee and miscellaneous receipts should be credited to the KVK main account only. The realization of the receipts received under these heads should be intimated well in advance to the concerned Zonal Project Director. ●KVK should submit a monthly statement of expenditure by 3rd of every following month to the ZPD in the prescribed format. ●KVK should follow sub-heads and items of expenditure to be covered under two main heads viz., recurring and non-recurring. ●All host organizations should ensure that no expenditure is incurred in excess of the budgetary allocation on approved items under recurring and non-recurring heads.