 Managing Crop with Arsenic Contamination in Ground Water in West Bengal A comprehensive investigation into the arsenic contamination has been reported in ground water of several districts of West Bengal revealed that the arsenic pollution in ground water in parts of West Bengal is a long-term geological phenomenon. Arsenic was introduced into the clastic sediments forming the aquifer of the affected areas in soluble state carried by the river water of the Ganges. There are safe water zones even within the affected (contaminated) areas. The worst affected is the Baruipur Block (South 24 Parganas) of the state with variable toxic concentrations of arsenic in the surface soils as well as in ground water at shallow depths (15-35 m) of the affected zones. The surface water (ponds, open wells, etc.) and the ground water at higher depths (more than 75 m) usually did not contain toxic level (> 0.05 ppm) of arsenic. Soil availability of arsenic can be influenced by different treatments. Besides RICE-FISH FARMING FOR HIGHER PRODUCTIVITY An experimental study on rice-fish integration system was conducted at WTCER Research Farm, Bhubaneswar with productivity of fish and prawn 793.1, 1,024.6 and 1,181.2 kg/ha/4 months in the fields with refuge at 15 cm, 12.5 cm and 10 cm dyke height, respectively at stocking density of 25,000/ha. Growth performance of cultured species improved as the dyke height decreased, probably due to increased spillout water supply to the refuge, thus less fluctuation of physico- chemical parameters and increased availability of nutrients and natural feed. The highest recorded productivity of rice, fish and prawn in the system are 2,870.0 kg, 1,143.7 kg and 37.5 kg/ha, respectively corresponding to total gross return of Rs 41,724/ha (selling price of rice, fish and prawn @ Rs 5, 20 and 120 respectively). The equivalent yield of this low input- based rice-fish integration system, however, corresponds to 8.34 tonnes/ha of rice (rice equivalent). Rice and straw yield increased by 6.3-7.4% and 8.1- 10.6%(without using any pesticide, etc.) due to the introduction of fish into the rice field. With increase in dyke height from 10 to 15 cm, the overall grain and straw yield increased significantly (P<0.05), due to increased frequency of locomotary movement of fish. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 76 drinking water, consumption of crops and vegetables grown on arsenic contaminated soil may be a potential source of its intake in human/animal body. Edible parts of leafy vegetables and root crops contain higher amounts of arsenic as compared to grain and fruit crops. Arsenic intake in the animal is more from the feed sources than through drinking water. Thus, management of the agricultural system holds the key to mitigate the arsenic menace.