 Promotion of cluster approach for efficient procurement and disposal of surplus fruits and vegetables in all the blocks. 6. Promotion of common resources on custom hire basis viz. Power tiller, Mini Thresher and other equipments at Nyay Panchayat level. 7. Establishment of packaging infrastructure at village level with packaging, sewing, sealing and labeling facilities. 8. Establishment of marketing chain for efficient/timely supply of produce/product. 9. Creation of larger facilities of infrastructure for reducing post harvest losses in horticultural commodities viz. Long term storage, warehouses. 10. Development of cottage industries at village level for unfinished products. 11. Cluster approach is useful for small and marginal farmers to procure input and disposal of surplus in areas. 12. Establishment of storage facilities like warehouses, cold storage and cold chamber at each block level. 13. Gravity ropeways to be constructed to provide road head access to the farm produce need to be taken to be taken at a larger scale. 14. Private investment must also be encouraged in post harvest technology and infrastructure to bridge the gap in agricultural marketing. Strategy 5: Waste land development and waste water 1. Contour bunding for arable purpose in waste land in high hills areas. 2. Afforestation of plants and perennial grasses in steep slope of more than 40% slope. 3. Need to develop more forest nurseries to supply fodder plants to farmers in rainy season. 4. Plantation of Mulberry plants, Wild fruit plants, Fodder trees (Bheemal, Utees, Oak etc.) may be promoted. 5. Popularization of soil bunds to save excessive loss of nutrients in wasteland of Uttarakhand. 6. Popularization of trenches or silages for percolation of water to avoid surface run off in Uttarakhand. 7. Construction of check dam and artificial structure to reduce run off and maximize the water percolation rate. 8. Construction of tank for storage of water for lean season. 9. Establishment of storage system for rain water in monsoon season. 10. Popularization of roof water harvesting system in different villages in the state. Strategy 6: Reduced cultivation cost 1. Judicious application specific fertilizers and micronutrients like Zink, Boron & Phosphorus etc. after soil testing in every block. 604 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 2. Promotion of Custom Hiring Centre (CHC) for the use of Power tillers, Power weeders, Paddy threshers, Wheat threshers, Mandua/ Madira threshers, Maize Sheller, Wheel Hand hoe, Manual/ power operated Wheat/Paddy reapers etc.) Power sprayer, mechanical fruit harvester at cluster or Nyaypanchayat level. 3. Establishment of sales and community centres at each cluster for easy and timely availability of seeds, seedlings, fertilizers. 4. Promotion of Zero tillage method of sowing in cereals. 5. Promotion of well decomposed FYM, Vermicompost and Biofertilizers to minimize the use of chemical fertilizers. 6.