 Four out of 27 primary clones showed high reactivity and rest showed low reactivity with BIV-gag protein. Isotypes of all the clones were determined. One of the BIV reactive clones showed cross reactivity with caprine arthritis and encephalitis virus (CAEV). Selected clones were inoculated into mice for production of ascites. Sheep A test for detection of anthelmintic resistance in Haemonchus contortus was standardized and used. The results revealed that more than 80% of eggs incubated and developed to infective larvae when no anthelminitic (thiabendazole) was used. On incorporation of thiabendazole (TBZ) in test system @ 0.078µ M/ml the development varied from 61.92 to 77.09% with susceptible H. contortus. The larval development was significantly inhibited more than 50% at concentration more than 0.078µ M/ml TBZ. Use of commercial urea solution prevented egg hatching and 50% eggs failed to hatch at 1.1477±0.00979 N2% concentration. The urea nitrogen in vitro was also lethal to infective larvae. The incorporation of urea in coproculture reduced the recovery of larvae. Urea spray at 2.72% concentration significantly reduced larval recovery from pasture. Nematophagous fungi, viz. Duddingtonia flagrans and Arthrobotrys oligospora were isolated from fresh sheep faeces. D. flagrans exhibited excellent capability to trap nematode larvae. A. oligospora, grown on corn-meal agar, did not show the nematophagous ability. However, when grown on 2% water agar medium the fungus showed both net-forming capability and trapping of infective H. contortus larvae. Trapping efficiency was maximum (66.6%) on the day 6 PI. The addition of fungal conidia in coproculture reduced recovery of larvae. Addition of conidia @ 100, 1,000 and 2,000/g faeces resulted in reduction of larval recovery by 73.7, 78.8 and 84.2%, respectively. However, there was no evidence of survival of conidia of A. oligospora after passage through the gastrointestinal tract, as the fungus could not be recovered from faecal cultures following the oral administration of conidia to sheep. Goat Monitoring and sero-surveillance of important goat diseases was carried out throughout the country. Comprehensive information on PPR outbreaks from different parts of the country was collected. Identification and evaluation of ethano-medical plants for control of parasitic diseases in small ruminants and development of immuno-diagnostic test for caprine brucellosis are under progress. The PPR virus was isolated and identified on molecular basis and diagnostic procedure was developed. An effective live attenuated vaccine was also developed, which gave immunity up to 18 months. The vaccine will be useful for the control of this dreaded disease in the country.