 Source of raw materials of dairy and non-dairy products. Some of the non-dairy products including vegetables (96.1 %), rice (88.3 %) and maize (67.5 %) were market-purchased. Dairy items, including milk was obtained from domestic cattle in 58.4 % households. Curd/yoghurt (54.5 %), paneer (63.6 %) and butter/ ghee was often market-purchased (63.6 %), with only 37.7 % produced at home. 3.1.7. Indigenous practices It was reported that for special illnesses which included ‘chicken pox’ and ‘exposure to venomous snake breath’, and epilepsy, management included the use of alternative medicine (visit to the temple of Sheetla Goddess and jhaada practice). Cattle dung manure was used as fertilizer by most of the households. Ash was also added to vegetables. Urea was used as a synthetic fertilizer in most crops to promote production. 3.1.8. Findings from healthcare providers The facility survey assessed the human healthcare and livestock healthcare profiles in two health facilities in the vicinity of the village, which included a private health facility and a civil veterinary dispensary. The facility survey was done to understand the antibiotic prescription practices (pattern and cause of antibiotic presctiption) to the people they cater to and by the vet care providers to the animals they cater to, and they catered to the animals from multiple villages. A private practitioner in the private health facility was interviewed. On average, the number of patients in a day was reported to be 45. Among them, an average of 5 patients were prescribed antibiotics. The average number of days the antibiotics are prescribed in a single visit (average duration of prescribed antibiotic treatment) was 5 days. For patients requiring multiple visits, the average number of follow-up visit was reported to be 4. The most common illnesses for which antibiotics were prescribed were throat infection, wounds/accidents in fields, typhoid fever, and fever with increased Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR). The basis for prescribing antibiotics was signs and symptoms, and lab reports. The veterinarian reported that the number of livestock catered to on average was 10 livestock per week at the dispensary. Out of these, around 4 livestock were administered antibiotic formulations at the dispensary. The veterinarian or assistant conducted around 50 visits per week, with antibiotics administered to nearly 25 % livestock which means proportion of livestock seen during the average 50 visits con­ ducted by the vet or their assistant. The visits were not restricted to the study village as the vet staff caters to multiple villages in that region. The same has been revised as under: The veterinarian or assistant conducted around 50 visits per week, with antibiotics administered to nearly 25 % livestock they visited during those nearly 50 visits per week, in multiple visits, inclduing the village included in study.