 Soil fertility evaluation – soil testing, plant and tissue tests and biological methods; Common soil test methods for fertilizer recommendation; Soil test-crop response correlations; Integrated nutrient management; Use of isotopic tracers in soil research; Nature, properties and development of acid, acid sulphate, saline and alkali and their management; Lime and gypsum requirements of soils; Irrigation water quality - EC, SAR, RSC and specifications. Fertility status of major soil groups of India. Application of Remote Sensing in Soil fertility mapping, Watershed management, Degraded land and soil erosion studies. Remote sensing and GIS in Carbon sequestration studies. Pollution: types, causes, methods of measurement, standards and management. Heavy metal toxicity and soil pollution; Chemical and bio-remediation of contaminated soils; Soil factors in emission of greenhouse gases; Carbon sequestration in mitigating greenhouse effect; Radio-active contamination of soil. Unit 5: Soil Microbiology Soil biota, soil microbial ecology, types of organisms. Soil microbial biomass, microbial interactions, unculturable soil biota. Microbiology and biochemistry of root-soil interface. Phyllosphere. Soil enzymes, origin, activities and importance. Soil characteristics influencing growth and activity of microflora. Microbial transformations of N, P, K, S, Fe and Zn in soil. Biochemical composition and biodegradation of soil organic matter and crop residues. Humus formation. Cycles of important 117 organic nutrients. Biodegradation of pesticides, organic wastes and their use for production of biogas and manures. Biofertilizers – definition, classification, specifications, method of production and role in crop production. Methods of soil analysis - particle size distribution, bulk and particle density, moisture constants, Modern methods of soil, plant and fertilizer analysis; Flame photometry and inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy; Spectrophotometry - visible, ultra-violet and infrared; Atomic absorption spectrophotometry; Potentiometry and conductimetry; X-ray diffractometry; Mass spectrometry. Unit 6: Statistics Experimental designs for pot culture and field experiments; Statistical measures of central tendency and dispersion; Correlation and regression; Tests of significance - t and F tests; Computer use in soil research, Geostatistics. 118 14 AGRICULTURAL ECONOMICS & AGRI-BUSINESS MANAGEMENT 14.1 AGRICULTURAL ECONOMICS Unit 1: Economic Theory Scope and methods of economics and agricultural economics, Characteristics of modern production, Problems of application of economic theory of agriculture. Production and consumption units and their peculiarities, Basic economics concepts - statistics. Comparative statics and dynamics equilibrium. Comparative economic systems, Development of economic theory and models. Themes of consumer behaviour -marginal utility, indifference curve (IC) and other models of utility maximization.