 The results are given in the Tables 3-13 and Figures 1-4. Moisture content The moisture content (%) of leaves and barks in guava is presented in Table.3. Initially no difference was found among the treatments in leaf; whereas in barks T2, T3 and T4 treatments contained lesser amount of moisture than T0 and Table 3. Moisture content (%) in leaf and bark of guava shoots under different treatments Table 4. Total free amino acids content (mg/g dry-sample basis) in leaf and bark of guava shoots under different treatments Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE T1, which is statistically significant. In both cases moisture percentage reduced significantly at later stage, perhaps due to ageing of the plants. The bark contains higher amount of moisture (51.8 to 54.8%) than leaf (48.3 to 51.2%). Presence of less amount of moisture in leaf compared with bark is probably because of reduced translocation of water from roots to leaves. The moisture percentage in leaf and bark has been considered while calculating the different biochemical constituents expressed on dry weight basis. Total free amino acids content Total free amino acid content (mg/g dry sample) of guava leaves and barks as influenced by different treatments are presented in Table 4. At early stage the leaf contained low amount of total free amino acids (av. 340.9 mg/g), which increased at flower-initiation stage (417.8 mg/g). But the position was just reversed in bark. Under bending the total free amino acid was found more, which is statistically significant in leaves and barks with compared that in the control. In other treatments, it decreased significantly. Out of leaf and bark, the leaf sample was found to accumulate significantly higher free amino acids. Bark samples showed significant decrease in free amino acids at flowering stage, perhaps due to translocation of free amino acids from barks to leaves. The tendency to increase in total free amino acids from initial stage to initiation of flowering stage is well in agreement with the total soluble protein content, which was found to decrease at flowering stage. This may again be explained with inefficient utilization of free amino acids to protein or the case of proteolysis under different treatments. All the events might enhance the accumulation of total free amino acids. Total soluble protein content The effect of different treatments of total soluble protein content in leaves and barks of guava was recorded (Table 5). Protein content significantly varied with the treatments. The highest protein content (av. 60.32 mg/g dry weight basis) was measured in the leaf under bending treatment (T1), followed by T2, T3, T4 and Tfl. Barks contained lesser protein than leaves. A decrease in total soluble protein content was found in leaves with ageing. However, in control soluble protein content in the leaf increased significantly.