 Animal Science Institutes of ICAR have made significant contributions in the development of effective and reliable vaccines against diseases of livestock and poultry. ICAR-IVRI, since its very inception, conducted research to develop potent biologicals against prevalent animal diseases. The institute produced useful products such as Anti-Anthrax Serum (1902), Polyvalent HS Vaccine (1908), Black Quarter Vaccine (1906-08), Goat Tissue Virus (GTV) Rinderpest Vaccine (1927), Ranikhet Disease Vaccine (1940), Tissue Culture Rinderpest Vaccine (TCRP vaccine) and Inactivated Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD) Vaccine (1946-52). In the post-independent era, IVRI developed African Horse Sickness Vaccine (1960-65), Irradiated Lungworm Vaccine (1973), Inactivated Goatpox Vaccine (1986), Live attenuated PPR Vaccine (2001), etc. In the fight against rinderpest, the potent vaccine developed and produced by IVRI helped eradication of the disease. The PPR vaccine developed by IVRI is now being used for PPR control in the country. There are number of other vaccines developed at IVRI and other ICAR institutes to help control diseases such as Sheeppox, Orf, Camelpox, Buffalopox, Equine Influenza, Johne’s disease, etc. Truly, the ICAR has done humongous amount of work for development of these vaccines and has helped in eradication of some diseases and control of many others. On certain occasions, Dr Trilochan Mohapatra, Hon’ble Secy. DARE & DG, ICAR had expressed his desire for documenting such significant contributions of ICAR in the field of animal health and this impelled us to bring out this document on vaccine technologies developed at ICAR. In this effort, Dr J.K. Jena, DDG (Fisheries Science) and Dr B.N. Tripathi, DDG (Animal Science), encouraged and guided us throughout the process of conceptualization to actualization of this task. We gratefully acknowledge their contribution in this regard. We also wish to place on record our sincere thanks to the Directors and Scientists of the ICAR institutes who contributed to the development of these valuable technologies and their technical input for the preparation of this document. PREFACE viii We believe, this concise and informative account of vaccines for livestock and poultry developed by the Animal Science Institutes of ICAR will serve as a ready reference for all stakeholders including those involved in production and marketing of such products. R.K. Singh B.P. Mishra G. Saikumar Ashok Kumar Jyoti Misri Arvind A. Sonwane contentS Message iii Foreword v Preface vii Introduction 1 A. Vaccines for cattle and buffaloes 4 1 Anthrax spore vaccine 5 2 Black Quarter (BQ) vaccine 6 3 Haemorrhagic Septicaemia (HS) vaccine 7 4 Brucella abortus vaccine (S-19 strain) 8 5 Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD) vaccine (Inactivated) 9 6 Buffalopox vaccine (Live attenuated; BPXV Vij/96 strain) 10 7 Johne’s Disease vaccine (Inactivated) 11 B.