 Presently, precision agriculture research is at initial stage and technologies such as sensor based embedded systems (soil nutrient, temperature, fertility, and moisture gradients), guidance systems (often enabled by GPS, GNSS, RFID), variable-rate input technologies (VRTs), automated machinery (automatic control and robots) and advanced imaging technologies (including satellite and drone imagery), NIR spectroscopy, hyper-spectral, X-ray and magnetic resonance imaging are being developed to map the variability and to manage it during field operations, threshing, storage, processing, quality evaluation and safety assessment in market yards. The new digital farming (DF) or smart farming technology is focused on real-time agricultural data acquisition and decision making. The digital farming also integrates the concepts of precision farming, smart farming, and a wide range of technologies, most of them are having multiple applications along the agricultural value chain. These technologies include cloud computing/big data analysis tools including block chain and smart contracts, the internet of things (IoT), digital communication technologies (mobile phones), image Fig. 1. Sir C.V. Raman inspects the work of CIRCOT, Mumbai in mid-1950s Achievements in Agricultural Engineering in Independent India 285 processing and digital platforms (e-commerce, agro-advisory apps, e-extension websites). The government of India has planned to digitize farming system for sustainable agricultural productivity. Agricultural research institutions, universities, and other organizations are working on DF to solve various agriculture related problems. The future agricultural engineering challenges are to stimulate right solutions for agriculture value chain through advanced technologies using the principles of precision farming involving equipment for unmanned operations and autonomous decision support systems (ADSS). It implies the use of robots and different forms of artificial intelligence (AI) platforms that can gather large amount of data from public websites. Presently, the AI based on machine learning (ML) and deep learning (DL) is not extensively used in Indian agriculture for automatic data acquisition, analysis, decision making and controlling the various tasks using different algorithm and mathematical models. The AI with computer vision and robotics is able to build next-generation agricultural equipment, which can identify defects in fruits, vegetables and fibres, detect stresses in crops, assess nutrient deficiencies in soil, reduce chemical application and harvest high value crops. There is a growing interest in applying AI to develop smart farming practices to minimize yield losses in crops by early warning and secondary agriculture for utilization of complete biomass of a particular crop and commodity for developing high value and low volume products for agro-industrialization and enhancing employment opportunities in the sector. 2.