 Sap on mango gives invitation to the microorganism and soil particles, as it is gluey as well as sugary in nature that leads to fast decaying and reduction in the storage life of fruit. Basically, this sap contain two components, i.e oil (yellow-brown) and protein polysaccharide (aqueous milky and viscous). Only an oil fraction (especially terpinolene) is known to cause damage to mango skin, which exudates first when de- stemming is done, whereas protein polysaccharide that released after the oil fraction is responsible for clear glaze on mango skin. De- sapping can be done physically by keeping mango fruit in an inverted position on trays/conveyor belts, as well as chemically by using sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, calcium hydroxide solutions, lauryl sulphate sodium, sodium hydroxide and alum. Fruits with adhered pedicels are usually dipped in a chemical solution and then the pedicle is Indian Farming 3 April 2023 manually broken with mango, and dipped into the solution for approximately 2 min followed by cleaning with chlorinated water and drying. This technique helps in lowering the incidence of sap-burn in mango. Sanitization with chlorine Freshly harvested mango carries a heavy load of microorganism with them that further can cause diseases. Washing with water is not enough to lower the load of microorganism. Therefore, it is very important to use sanitizer that helps to eliminate or reduce pathogenic and spoilage microorganism which is also cost- effective, eco-friendly and non- hazardous in nature. Mango is highly susceptible to diseases, caused by pathogenic microorganisms because they are rich in water and nutrients that provide an ideal substrate for the development of pathogenic microorganisms. This leads to a reduction in the quality of mango, especially during the post- harvest period, and cause economic losses. Chlorine gas, sodium hypochlorite solutions and calcium hypochlorite are commercially used as an aqueous sanitizer in food industry. The recommended dose of chlorine ranges between 50–200 ppm, pH 6.0–7.5, with a contact time of 2–5 min. High doses of chlorine can cause tainting and sodium residues remaining on products can damage the tissues of mango. Furthermore, chlorine can react with organic matter to form carcinogenic products. Hence, it is important to use chlorine within the recommended range. Generally, these sanitizer’s works in both ways- firstly, use of chlorine ensure that all the spoilage causing microorganism present in water is killed and cannot further contaminate the fruits and secondly, chlorine helps in reducing the load of microorganism from the fruit surface. Chlorine sanitizers are found very effective in reducing the population of Salmonella therefore, preventing cross-contamination and creates hindrance in the internalization of pathogen in mangoes. Grading Mangoes are graded on the basis of their colour, weight, size and maturity. It can be done manually or by using a grading machine.