 In regions where water scarcity is the principal limiting factor for cultivation, farmers are interested in growing crops that are able to adapt to drought conditions. Shortage of water in arid and semi-arid parts of this region where annual precipitation is less than 220 mm with almost no rainfall during the summer is a prominent limiting factor of crop production. y There is a climatic risk due to unseasonal rains in winter to grow isabgol. Crop gets damaged in the unseasonal rain and hailstorms. It causes damage to the crop and loss to the farmers. Therefore, farmers gradually shift to other crops. Also, the price is less remunerative. However, there is a huge scope for value addition of the crop. y A product contained Plantago ovata may be a useful supplement in weight control diets which is already taken traditionally by the people world-wide. y It is used in the pharmaceutical as well as cosmetic industries. It is used for sizing purpose and as a base in cosmetics. The husk has been found to be served as a good binder and disintegrates in compressed tablets. The isolated mucilage powder of P. ovata exhibits faster drug dissolution and improves bioavailability, and it is stated that the isolated mucilage powder can be effectively used as disintegrants and super disintegrant in tablet formulations. y Isabgol seed has the richest fibre contents consumed as natural source of fibre with various health benefits. This is the important aspect for increasing interest for research work in this fibre into dietary food products with health protective effects. Action plan for research activities (rainfed and irrigated both) ICAR-DMAPR at Anand and other universities of the states are working on development of new varieties in isabgol having non-shattering seeds to withstand climatic adversity. Considering the importance of isabgol in the world market and its present status of research work, following areas of research are to be given importance in the coming years: 1. Development of early maturing, high-yielding and drought tolerant varieties so as to address the climate changes and that fit into suitable cropping system and to save water. 2. Development of variety having non-shattering seeds. 3. Development of high yielding varieties with resistance to downey mildew disease is to be given importance. 4. The possibility of exploitation of the male sterility for commercial hybrid seed production is another area of importance. 5. As the soluble fibre content in isabgol is playing a vital role in reducing the diabetes, the development of varieties with high proportion of soluble fibre content will make breakthrough in the reduction of diabetes. Hence, this line of research is also given top priority. 6. Development of qualitative standard for fixing the maximum support price of the isabgol. 7. Development of natural product from the Isabgol for pharmaceuticals and cosmetic industries.