 This method helps in reducing the use of fertilizers, environmental pollution and soil erosion, and also saves water and other natural resources. Farmers can adopt small- or large- scale hydroponic production units following low-cost devices and sustain green fodder supplements round the year for profitable livestock production. Particularly the dairy farmer who is having a limited area for fodder cultivation can reap the benefits of hydroponic green fodder cultivation. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: bhagavanreddyperudi3@gmail.com Indian Farming 6 February 2023 Sustainable agriculture through protected cultivation Manisha*, Bas Kaur, Sahil Boora and Shikha Bhukal Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, Haryana 125 004 The practice of protected cultivation is still developing in India. Input application and protection technology improvement techniques are being developed. For off-season vegetable cultivation, low-cost protected technologies such as plastic low tunnels or walk-in tunnels can be employed to generate excellent returns. Similar to this, virus-free crop production can be achieved by using insect-proof net buildings on a big scale. This will reduce the usage of pesticides in vegetable agriculture. More eco-friendly plastics are being produced for making the processes more efficient. Therefore, protected cultivation could bring prosperity to horticulture crop growers of India and ensure nutritional security for everyone. Keywords: Horticulture, Mulching, Protected cultivation I NDIA’S agriculture often finds itself up against a variety of obstacles caused by dynamic factors like climate change, degraded soil, population pressure, fragmented land use, limited water supplies, marketing and entrepreneurship, etc. One of India’s most important agricultural sectors is horticulture, which is quickly taking over. India produces the most fruit crops and is the second-largest producer of vegetables, with a 146 mt output from an 8.4 mh area, after China. Although the area dedicated to horticulture has grown over the past 20 years, primarily at the expense of other crops, there is little chance of an increase in the cultivable area. Despite the fact that protected cultivation only covers around 60,000 ha, it is quickly becoming one of the most promising fields in terms of enhanced productivity, quality, income, entrepreneurship, etc. However, the advancement of protected technologies area coverage in terms of per cent coverage is very encouraging. This article discusses the full spectrum of protected cultivation technology, Indian Farming 73 (02): 06-08; February 2023 its potential, suitable regions and crops, overcoming the difficulties of biotic and abiotic stresses, market linkages and overall empowerment of farmers in terms of knowledge, input availability and use-efficiency, plant protection, post-harvest loss management, and market linkages, among other things.