 yy Development of improved stock by using high quality pure-bred bucks: The breed adapted to the existing agro-climatic conditions and can thrive well on un-conventional feed and fodder resources should be given priority in goat-based breeding programme. Upgrading of goats through elite purebred bucks needs to be implemented along with prophylactic support. Kids nursery may be established for regular supply of breeding bucks to goat keepers for improvement in genetic potential of goats particularly in rural areas. The progenies born from superior bucks yielded 40-75% more production and fetched 25-40% higher market price. Improvement in Goat Production for Sustainable Rural Livelihood 46 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR yy Promotion of prophylactics: Infectious diseases such as Peste des petits ruminants (PPR), enterotoxaemia, goatpox and foot and mouth disease (FMD) are responsible for high economic losses (30-60% goat mortality) in goat farming. In a case study it was reported that vaccination and deworming of goats have reduced the mortality (<10%) thus increased the survival of goat and net income of Rs. 3500-4500/year with a unit of five goats with the expenditure requirement of only Rs. 300/year on five units of goats. yy Development of feeding resources at village level: Fodder supplies in villages can be improved substantially by increasing the productivity of traditional feed and fodder crops. Inter-cropping may be adopted with twin objective, using seed/roots/tubers for human and leaves and shrubs for goats. Short duration and quick growing leguminous forage crops should be promoted. Farmers are trained for processing and storage of fodder resources available during monsoon for meeting demand during the lean period as well as their nutritive/value addition. The degraded grazing lands and Common Property Resources (CPR) near villages should be converted into productive system like silvi-pasture. Agro- forestry and good grazing practices need to be popularized among farmers. yy Strengthening support services and extension network: Credit is one of the important aspects for goat keepers for accessing technological interventions such as improved housing, feed concentrate, quality germplasm, value added products, etc. It will help and encourage goat keepers to switch their goat management system from extensive (zero- input) to semi-intensive management and up-scaling the production. yy Popularization of package of improved management practices: The awareness may be created among goat keepers for improved management practices such as breeding calendar (optimum age and weight of breeding at first time, season/months of breeding) to obtain maximum, production and profit from goats, health calendar, strategic feeding (colostrum feeding, supplementary concentrate feeding at advance pregnancy, efficient use of feed and fodder as per age, sex, productivity), smart marketing and value addition.