 1General Manager/Faculty Member, 2Chief Technical Officer, DKMA, ICAR New Delhi, *Corresponding author’s e-mail: bistvinod64@gmail.com Fig. 2. Rainbow trout Indian Farming November 2020 23 Fisheries enhancement through stocking of fingerlings in Indian reservoirs for doubling fisher’s income and livelihood security U K Sarkar1*, Lianthuamluaia2, Mishal P3 and Suman Kumari4 ICAR-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute, Barrackpore, West Bengal 700 120 Fingerling stocking and culture-based fisheries (CBF) is one of the major fisheries enhancement strategies practiced in reservoirs. In the recent years, the reservoir productivity in the country has improved through adoption of culture based fisheries coupled with financial assistance from National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB), Govt. of India and technical guidance from ICAR-CIFRI. The present study deals with the assessment of impact of fingerlings stocking on the major carp production in selected reservoirs in three different states. Successful adoption of CBF in 83 small reservoirs of Odisha led to the increase of fish yield to 204-323 kg/ha/yr. Similarly in Chhattisgarh the fish yield increased significantly from 48-160 kg/ha/year after scientific stocking of fingerlings in 34 reservoirs. The fish yield increased from 1.1 kg/ha/yr in 2004-05 to 43.46 kg/ ha/yr in 2017-18 due to adoption of fish stock enhancement strategy in large reservoir of Madhya Pradesh. Stocking and management of fingerlings in these reservoirs resulted in increased availability of fish, enhanced food security, livelihood opportunities and increased farmer’s income. Keywords: Fingerling stocking, Fisheries enhancement, Livelihood, Small reservoir I N India, the area under reservoir was estimated at about 3.5 million ha having enormous potential for inland fisheries development. Presently, stocking of fish in reservoir or culture based fishery is the most important strategy for sustainable enhancement of fish production. Enhancement of fish production through stocking was recorded in many reservoirs of India and other parts of the globe. Scientific assessment of the actual impact of stocking on the fish yield is lacking which is essential for fixing of the optimum stocking density and refining the stocking management for sustainable enhancement of fish production from the reservoirs. The reservoirs of India are situated in tropical region with high nutrient turnover favouring natural productivity. The fish production in to 500 fingerlings/ha, 1,000 fingerlings/ha and 2,000 fingerlings / ha for small, medium and large reservoirs, respectively. The information on impact of stocking on fish yield in reservoir of India is sparsely and irregularly available. Although different states have their own stocking program but no recent systematic assessment has been carried out and documented properly in the recent years. Impact assessment of stocking was carried out only for selected reservoirs of India.