 Fruits and vegetables play a crucial role in human nutrition by supplying essential nutrients, vitamins, and fibre necessary for good health. They constitute a significant portion—roughly 90%—of the nation’s overall horticultural yield. India’s rich diversity of agro- climatic regions ensures a continuous supply of diverse Indian Farming 74 (10): 41-45; October 2024 fruits and vegetables throughout the year. As the world’s second-largest producer of fruits and vegetables, India produced 107.24 million tonnes of fruits (from an area of 7.05 million ha, with productivity of 15.21 MT/ha) and 204.83 million tonnes of vegetables (from 11.35 million ha, with productivity of 18.05 MT/ha) according to MoA&FW, 3rd Advance Estimates (2021-22). Globally, India ranks as the largest producer of banana, papaya, mango, and guava, and the second-largest producer of potato, green pea, tomato, cabbage, and cauliflower. However, post-harvest losses remain a significant challenge in agriculture, occurring at various stages, including farming, packaging, transportation, storage, and retail. ICAR has conducted various studies to quantify post-harvest losses in horticultural produce, which are considerable due to the perishable nature of fruits and vegetables. According to ICAR reports, post-harvest losses in horticultural produce in India can range between 6% and 18%, depending on the type of produce and handling conditions. Therefore, effective post- harvest management is essential to reduce these losses, Indian Farming 42 October 2024 preserve produce quality, and ensure more fruits and vegetables reach the market in good condition. Proper handling and storage also help farmers increase their income and minimize waste. Post-harvest management Post-harvest management of fruits and vegetables involves various techniques before and after harvesting, including handling, packaging, storage, distribution, and marketing. Due to their high water content, fruits and vegetables exhibit significant metabolic activity, making them highly perishable commodities. Primary objectives of post-harvest management • Maintaining quality (appearance, texture, flavour, and nutritional value). • Extending shelf life. • Reducing losses from harvest to consumption. Post-harvest technology is essential for reducing losses and maintaining the quality of horticultural produce, thus making marketing more efficient. This ensures that farm produce reaches consumers without waste. Farmers’ roles have evolved from simply being producers to taking on more responsibilities, enabling them to earn better from their efforts and the risks they take, ultimately leading to greater business success. Skills such as sorting, grading, packaging, and storing add value to crops and generate income. Proper handling and care during these primary processing operations is crucial, as any losses during these steps represent a waste of all resources involved in the production of fruits and vegetables.