 497 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 The major challenges would be: Š Š Restoring the storage capacities of the old reservoirs and the tanks which are heavily silted up. Š Š Utilizing surplus flood flows draining into the sea by putting up small structures and conveying it to drought prone high level commands by pumping schemes. Š Š Removing the encroachments in water bodies and protecting them in an efficient manner. Š Š Augmenting ground water potential through construction of artificial recharge structures and rain water harvesting systems for sustainable ground water development and management. Š Š Augmenting the surface water potential byway of inter-basin transfer by inter-linking of rivers within the State. Š Š The water holding capacity, by Restoration, Renovation and Rehabilitation (RRR) of traditional water bodies. Š Š Preventing the pollution of water bodies such as rivers, streams, reservoirs, tanks, etc., and to reuse the treated effluent water for irrigation. Š Š Intensifying the public awareness and training activities on water management in order to increase the efficiency of water use by implementing change management. G. Animal Husbandry In livestock sector especially for cattle, the major challenge is increasing the fodder area and fodder availability. Decline in area under permanent pastures is the main reason for the shortfall of fodder requirement. Further emphasis has to be laid on optimum utilization of waste land to grow fodder. The fodder production has to be increased by promoting high yielding fodder varieties. Adequately providing proper infrastructure and equipment to the veterinary health care institution is yet another major challenge for the timely diagnosis and treatment of animal diseases. A mixture of technology, policy and institutional innovations needs to be combined for sustainable and equitable livestock sector growth. The major challenges are: Š Š Provision of animal breeding, doorstep veterinary and emergency health care services, subsidized Artificial Insemination services, up gradation of milch animals, supply of feed, cultivation of fodder and insurance cover to animals of milk producers in cooperative fold. Š Š Ensuring clean milk production with quality testing at village level. Š Š Modernization of cooperative dairy infrastructure. Š Š Development of e-governance programs Š Š Bringing the landless laborers and marginal farmers especially women farmers into the fold of organized livestock rearing. 498 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Š Š Strengthening of Veterinary Services Delivery System and Diagnostic services. Š Š Improving the capability of frozen semen production stations. Š Š Providing marketing access and improving cold chain especially in milk handling and processing. Š Š Promoting Backyard Family Poultry. H.