 Fluorescent polarization assay (FPA) for sero- monitoring of brucellosis in livestock, was developed and validated. The kit was transferred to ADMaC core Lab-I to generate the epidemiological data on brucellosis in north eastern states. Estimation of economic losses due to pox infection in sheep and goats at assumed 1% annual incidence levels revealed the total estimated loss as `480.72 crore. A questionnaire was developed to assess the risk factors for occurrence of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS). Phage lysate candidate vaccines against Brucella abortus and Pasteurella multocida were developed. Diagnostic methods were developed for detection of Japanese encephalitis infection in pigs; rotavirus group A infection in animals; Newcastle disease virus in the vaccine OVERVIEW DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 6 formulation, with diagnostic specificity 100% and diagnostic sensitivity 95%; four extraneous agents MDV, EDSV, CIAV, and avian mycoplasma in poultry and cell lines of avian origin; classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and haemoparasitic diseases. Infrared thermal imaging technology could be used as a potential non- invasive, quick cow-side diagnostic technique for screening and early detection of subclinical and clinical mastitis in crossbred cows. Bone and tendon biomaterials were prepared for healing the lost bone and tendon tissues through use of tissue engineering techniques. Nano structured hybrid polymer of catechin increased in vitro antioxidant property, enhanced bioavailability and drug releasing property denoting its potential use as a hepatoprotectant. Nano-based test was standardized as colorimetric detection test for Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP) in milk samples with 100% specificity. Marine fish landing during 2016 was estimated as 3.63 million tonnes, asserting an increase of 6.6% compared to that of 2015. Gujarat remained the major producer followed by Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Guidelines, Indian Marine Fisheries Code (IMFC), were developed to put in practice the FAO’s Code of Conduct for Responsible Fisheries (FAOCCRF 1995), and to change the manner in which marine fisheries is managed in the country. Tilapia lake virus (TiLV), a threat to global tilapia industry, was detected from West Bengal and Kerala. This is the first report of TiLV from India. Alerts were issued to State Fisheries Departments and other stakeholders for preventing its spread. Mechanization and energy management: A planting machine was developed to carry out bund forming, fertilizer placing, mulch laying, drip laying, pressing, punch planting and covering, in a single pass to reduce labour, time and cost as compared to traditional practices. The cost of the complete system is ` 5.5 lakh and cost of controlled puddling with this system is ` 2,300/ha. Planting of cassava is tedious and expensive, usually done manually by women labourers (20 days/ha). The estimated cost of the planter is ` 95,000 which covers 0.