 1CAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 21 6. Fee : A candidate must pay the fee prescribed by the Council unless exempted therefrom or granted concession thereof in accordance with the exemptions and/or concessions in this respect notified from time to time. 7. Decision of the Board to be Final: The decision of the Board as to the eligibility or otherwise of a candidate for admission to the examination shall be final and no candidate to whom a certificate of admission has not been issued by the Board, shall be admitted to the examination/ 8. Penalty for Misconduct: A candidate who is/or has been declared by the Board guilty of impersonation, or of submitting fabricated document or documents which have been tampered with or of making statements which are incorrect or false, of suppressing material information, or other- wise resorting to any other irregular or improper means for obtaining admission to the examination, or of using or attempting to use unfair means in the examination hall, or of misbehaviour in the examination hall, may, in addition to rendering himsef liable to criminal prosecution: (a) be debarred permanently or for a specified period; (i) by the Board from admission to any examination or appea- rance at any interview held by the Board for selection of candidates; and (ii) by the Council from employment under them : (b) be liable to disciplinary action under the appropriate rules if he is already in Service under the Council. 9. Preparation of List of Successful Candidates • After the examination, the successful candidates shall be interviewed by the Board, and merit list prepared in accordance with the number of unreserved and reserved vacan- cies decided to be filled on the basis of the results of the examination and sent to the Controlling Authority. Provided that any candidate belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes who, though not qualified by the standard prescribed by the Board -for the Service, is declared by them to be suitable for selection having due regard to the maintenance of efficiency of the research service, shall be recommended for appointment in consonance with the vacancies reserved for the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes as the case may be, in the Service. The Controlling Authority shall then arrange for the training of the selected candidates. PART IH : RECRUITMENT THROUGH SELECTION TO GRADE S-2 AND S-3 OF THE SERVICE 1. A candidate for admission through selection must apply before such date, in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed by the Board. 22 ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 2. A candidate must pay the fee prescribed by the Board, unless exempted therefrom or granted concession thereof in accordance with the exemption and/or concession in this respect notified from time to time. 3.