 This endoparasite is locally known as karmiya. Vasava (1992b) 61 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference Approximately 4–5 fruits are fed with grass to suffering calf for 4–6 days continuously. Simita is a creeper and bears oblong green fruit. It fruits during August to June. It grows in hedge (Bharuch, Gujarat). 88 Control of insects in maize by releasing kerosene treated beetle Sometimes maize is infested by hungo (local name of insect -pest). This pest damages maize pollen. Tribals in the forest use several physical methods to control its infestation. Sometimes adult insects (may be beetle) are soaked for few minutes in kerosene and released again in field. (This treatment is also believed to causing sterility in insects) (Bharuch, Gujarat). Vasava (1992c) 89 Control of pests in maize by tobacco Mix 1 kg of tobacco powder with 5 kg of sand. The mixture is made moist by sprinkling 200–250 ml of water.Twenty days after sowing the crop the mixture is slowly put in the crown of the crop. Six kg of this mixture is sufficient for 1 hectare for controling gabhmar insect (stem-borer). Similar treatment is given on the 40th day (from sowing). The cost of using this technique comes to about Rs 25/ha (Modasa, Gujarat). Patel (2000c) 90 Control of diseases and pests in maize by use of onion juice Painted grasshopper pests attack maize in its early stage. Parasites such as striga and diseases like leaf curl virus also attack leaves and are causing high damages. Generally these pests attack during monsoon. Juice of 2–3 kg peeled onions (after dilution) is sprayed on one bigha (0.24 hectare) to control pests (Panchmahal, Gujarat). Rathod (1997) 91 Use of leaves of Dhumas (Combretum ovalifolium) to control pests in maize Maize is infested by sunga (local name of insect pest), which is like a blister bittle, which sucks juice from maize pollen and ultimately affect cobs setting. Collect Dhumas (Combretum ovalifolium) leaves from degraded lands or common lands. About 5–7 persons stand in a row and keep leaves of this plants in individual bags on their back. They start moving from one side of the field to the other in the direction of wind. On the way, they catch 1–2 Sunga from the air and crush these with 2–3 leaves by rubbing palms of hands. Peculiar smell comes from this mixture. According to user of this practice, Sunga will fly away in the direction of wind due to peculiar odour. As soon as the smell is over or reduced from material Kalibhai (1992) 62 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference (after 2–4 minutes), fresh insects and leaves are crushed to repeat the treatment continuously. All the insect fly away in one direction quickly. This practice is followed collectively to some extent. Farmers of adjoining fields also pursue this practice along with their family members at the same time.