 There should not be any duplication of units. ● Depending upon the strength of the university “Niche area of excellence” be identified for provision of funding. ● Explore and generate own financial resources also – Alumini association, collaboration with industries (Public–Private partnership) ● Encourage global education by admitting foreign students. ● Maintain close liaison with State governments. ● Undertake Technology Assessment and Refinement for constant upgradation of knowledge and transfer of technology. ● Faculty improvement need to be taken up as per recommendation in specialized areas of excellence. ● For release of funds, time frame with respect to submission of audit utilization certificate, half yearly and annual reports must be ensured. ● Additional funds will be given to respective colleges for best performance (such as Rs 1.00 lakh for Jawaharlal Nehru Award, Rs 50,000 per JRF produced etc.) Remarks by ADG (EPD) ● Ensure a core strategy for strengthening higher education and CONCLUDING SESSION Chairman : Dr S. Ayyappan, Secretary, DARE & DG ICAR Co- Chair : Dr Arvind Kumar, DDG (Edn.), ICAR On the Dias : Dr C. Devakumar, ADG (EPD) Dr R.K.Mittal, ADG (EQR) 17 accordingly revisit the minimal requirement of funds item-wise, prioritize year-wise and send the list to the Education Division. ● All are once again requested to email the filled-in questionnaire so that the inputs could be used by the High Power Review Team. Your inputs would also be useful in drawing the roadmap for XII Plan Scheme. ● Whenever possible repair and renovate the existing facilities rather than seeking funds for new buildings/equipments. ● As directed by the DG, ICAR, share the resources available under ICAR/AUs within a city or town. Remarks by ADG (EQR) ● Visit to hostels by Deans periodically and ascertain requirement of modernization, renovation and maintenance. ● The central instrumentation facility must be open to all faculty/students. ● Faculty must be motivated by seniors. ● Deans of faculty should visit other universities. ● Monitoring mechanisms on the operation of schemes must be worked out. Concluding Remarks by Dr S. Ayyappan, Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR ● The AUs can form about 8–10 Consortia on different flagship programmes and work for tangible outcomes. There is a need to harness solar energy, wind energy etc. Similarly the varietal improvement must be revisited in a cohesive manner. ● Customised training to new recruits in the cadre of Asst Professors at NAARM may be planned. ● Each university may develop a comprehensive roadmap encompassing every college, research stations, KVK, etc. ● Each college must spare time to prepare an approach paper/vision document. ● A committee under the chairmanship of Dr S.L. Mehta is engaged in enlarging in the NAAS Journals database for which inputs may be provided.