 Flowers are dull-yellow in terminal and auxiliary panides. The tree is one of the commonest and most widely distributed of all important timber species. Arjun (Terminalia arjuna) is a large evergreen tree with a spreading crown and drooping branches, common in most parts of India and also planted in many parts of Indian Peninsula along rivers, streams, ravines and dry water sources. It extends northwards to the sub-Himalayan tract where it is distributed along the bank of streams. Experimenters : Dr (Ms) N. Bara, Scientist, Department of Extension Education and DR. R. P. Singh `Ratan', Head Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Kanke, Ranchi, Dr K.K. Kumar, Director and, Dr A. K Jaiswal, Senior Scientist, Indian Lac Research Institute, Namkum, Ranchi (Jharkhand).   NATURAL YARNS AND DYES Fig. 1. Asan tree (Terminalia tomentasa ) Fig. 2. Dye preparation from Asan bark Fig. 3. Arjun tree (Terminalia arjuna ) Fig. 4. Dye preparation from Arjun bark METHODOLOGY Location The study was conducted in Bagraisai and Chota Kadal villages in Rajanager block of Saraikela district of Jharkhand. PRA and field study To identify another identical ITK on natural dye or colour, a focused group interview was conducted. Soil colour emerged as most suitable alternative for comparison. Altogether 30 respondents were interviewed. Two matrices were drawn on the ground. The PRA method was adopted to collect the data. The parameters included durability, cost effectiveness, hygienic, aesthetic and attractive character; and availability of raw materials. Experiment To validate the ITK, the natural colours of arjun, asan and soilwere prepared and used in 6 replications, each having 3 treatments, viz. wall  NATURAL YARNS AND DYES painting with soil colour (T 1), arjun colour (T 2) and san colour (T 3). The parameters selected for assessing the performance were: durability of colours, time and labour requirement and unit cost of production or preparation of colours. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study In order to assess the properties of two natural Table 1. Matrix scoring for assessing the properties of natural colours and soil colour Property Asan/arjun Soil colour colour Durability 95 57 Cost effectiveness 68 80 Hygienic 95 60 Aesthetic and attractive 94 90 Availability of raw materials 92 70 Table 3. Durability (months) of natural colours on mud walls used as painting materials Duration Effect (%) in treatments Soil colour Arjun colour Asan colour After 3 months of application 100 100 100 After 6 months of application 80 100 90 After 9 months of application 75 90 80 After 12 months of application 60 80 75 preparation and total time spent, soil colour was found to be superior. Arjun or asan colour scored much more than soil colour for its various uses. It was revealed from the key information provides and group discussion that colour of arjun and asan are also used for colouring leathers, clothes etc.