 Sowing at the right time helps crops escape drought or heat stress during critical growth stages. Early sowing allows crops to mature before terminal droughts or heat waves become detrimental, thereby improving yields. Additionally, sowing crops at optimal times helps them take advantage of the available soil moisture and reduces the risk of moisture stress later in the season. For example, early sowing of sorghum can reduce the incidence of shoot fly. This practice also holds good for the biotic stresses. One of the most effective strategies is to synchronize sowing with the onset of the monsoon, which has been shown to be particularly useful in controlling specific pests like shoot fly and stem borers in rainfed crops like sorghum. Early sowing is also effective against certain viral and bacterial diseases. Incidence of groundnut bud necrosis and sesame phyllody were low in early sown crops. Pod borer incidence on pigeonpea was reported to be less when the crop was sown simultaneously by all the farmers. Crop rotation Crop rotation is a well-established practice that maintains the crop productivity. The rotation of crops is essentially a means of maintaining soil fertility so that an appropriate sequence of crops used in a rotation can produce better average yields than continuous cultivation of the same crop (mono cropping). Crop rotation enhances soil structure and reduces erosion, which is critical in preventing degradation under stressful conditions like heavy rains or dry spells. For example, maize followed by pigeonpea can improve the soil structure. Moreover, this strategy also proves helpful in reducing pest infestation. By rotating crops, the life cycles of crop- specific pests and pathogens are disrupted, reducing their populations over time. For example, rotation with Indian Farming 75 (01): 22-25; January 2025 Indian Farming 23 January 2025 sorghum and groundnut reduces important insect pests (sorghum stem borer and groundnut leaf miner). Apart from pest, it can also prevent the dominance of certain weed species as different crops have different growth patterns, canopy cover, and nutrient needs. Crop rotation also helps reduce the need for chemical pesticides, as pest populations can be managed naturally through the rotation of crops. Use of stress tolerant crop cultivars Biotic and abiotic stress tolerant crop varieties represent a critical innovation in modern agriculture, offering a highly effective means of managing stresses that impact crop growth and yield. These resistant crop varieties suppress their incidence and abundance; would be tolerant and offer a highly effective means of managing stresses in crop plants. Stress tolerant crop varieties can play a critical role overcoming the stress impact due to climatic variability. Identifying short duration varieties can be useful in avoiding terminal heat and moisture stress and ensuring harvesting of a good crop.