 Deposition of discharge was 84.25% at the periphery. Penetration efficiency of the sprayer reduced with increase in depth of the canopy, resulting in 44.95% deposition at 1-metre depth and 32.42% at 2-metre depth from the canopy surface. The deposition was found negligible beyond 2 metres. The operator felt uncomfortable to manoeuver tractor and sprayer beyond PTO speed of 411 rev/min. The manually-operated rocker-sprayer had low cost of operation, low application rate and moderate field capacity, but tractor-operated aero-blast sprayer had highest field capacity, lowest manpower requirement, highest reach of discharge but high cost of operation. Multi-crop Harvester for Intercrops in Rainfed Areas Self-propelled vertical conveyor-reaper for paddy has been redesigned for harvesting safflower and sorghum. The prototype of multicrop harvester was tested with a 5.4 hp-diesel engine and with a 3.5-hp bi-fuel kerosene engine for harvesting SUCCESS STORY MANUALLY-OPERATED LOWLAND RICE-SEEDER During peak rice-transplanting season, labour is scarce, and this results in delayed transplanting, which in turns affects productivity. To overcome this problem, a manual pre-germinated-rice-seeder has been developed by the TNAU, Coimbatore centre. It has eight rows with 200 mm row-to-row spacing. A lugged wheel is provided for giving drive to an agitator in the drums to facilitate easy flow of pre-germinated seeds. The machine floats on two skids. Pre-germinated rice seeds are kept in 4 drums, which have peripheral openings at two ends for seed discharge. The seed flow can be cut-off by closing holes with rings, provided over the drums. The seeder is manually drawn and requires two persons, one for operating the unit and the other for helping operator for filling seeds and turning at headlands. The overall dimensions of the unit are 1,650 mm × 1,600 mm × 690 mm and it weighs 11.2 kg. Due to maintenance of rows at required spacing, the weeding and interculture can be carried out easily using long-handled tools. Field trials at the Research Farms at Coimbatore, Madurai and Bhavanisagar recorded average effective field capacity of the rice- seeder at 0.12 ha/hr with 63% field efficiency. Average seed rate of the seeder in the field was 85 kg/ha. The germination of rice-seed is not affected by the continuous seed-drum rotation. Rice Research Centres of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, at Coimba- tore, Madurai, Aduthurai, Tanjore, Ambasamudram and Bhavanisagar had assessed performance of the lowland rice-seeder with trans- planted rice and broadcasting method, and found grain yield higher with rice-seeder at all locations. IIT, Kharagpur centre, had carried out prototype feasibility testing of the seeder. The seed rate for B 7029, Lolat, IR 36 and Shankar rice varieties during trials varied from 42 to 60 kg/ha. The field capacity of the seeder was found in the range of 0.1–0.14 ha/hr with the labour requirement of 15–20 man-hr/ha.