 These systems are often less risky, if managed efficiently, they benefit from synergisms among the crops, diversity in produce, and environmental soundness. Further, integration of allied enterprises in the system adds profitability and stability with intermittent returns through better recycling of resources. 7.1 Productivity Gaps and Major Constraints Š Š Unavailability of quality seed and planting material of paddy, cashew, coconut and other important crops Š Š High labour cost and unavailability of harvesters in coconut and other areas of agriculture Š Š Wild animal menace in agriculture is important and major problem in Goa Š Š Lack of cold storage and warehouses, small scale paddy processing units Š Š There is a wide gap between demand and production of milk, meat and eggs in Goa which is currently depends on neighbouring states. Š Š Unavailability of quality feed and fodder for dairy sector Š Š Lack of ccapacity building of farmers, youth, field veterinarians about improved animal husbandry practices Š Š Presently, there is an acute shortage of Field Veterinarians and Veterinary Assistants at all field establishments which limit better veterinary services to the farmers. Š Š Unavailability of labour in poultry, dairy and other animal husbandry sectors Š Š Lack of slaughter houses/meat processing units for small animals (goats, pigs and poultry) for meat production and value addition. Š Š Unavailability of quality seeds in fisheries sector is a major concern. Besides, storage facilities, lack of awareness about advanced technologies, lack of proper marketing chain and facilities are also matter of concern. Š Š Establishment of coastal zone coordination agriculture committee minimum support price Š Š Lack of coordination among different government departments. Š Š Facility /data of kisan card should be made valid for availing all the schemes of development departments to get support in terms of subsidy/support price etc. Š Š Farmers also expressed issues like capacity building of weaker sections, attracting youths to agriculture, and publications of success stories, providing agriculture inputs and providing facilities for by products processing. 7.2 Strategy and action plan for enhancing production, cost reduction, quality improvement, generating additional income Strategies: i. Productivity improvement in crops ii. Crop Diversification, Intensification and Integrated Farming System (IFS) approaches State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 139 (Integration of potential crops, animal and fishery) and advanced management practices like nutrient management and plant protection measures iii. Production improvement in animal and fishery sector iv. Mechanization in agriculture and allied activities v. Creating value chain-supply network by Post-Harvest management and Value addition 1.