 One of the main implications is to strengthen the weather advisory services to enable farmers to take appropriate decisions regarding the adaptation measures. Another implication relates to the animal husbandry, an important source of livelihood for 70% of the farm households who often cultivate tiny pieces of land and maintain a few low- producing animals. Improving their scale of production requires policy support in terms of investment, financing and information on production practices related to breeds, feeds and health. Further, given the growing water scarcity there is a need to adopt water-efficient cropping patterns and technologies to conserve water resources. Multi-objective optimization for sustainable agriculture in Bundelkhand: Considering current resource constraints, particularly the water in Bundelkhand region, sustainable cropping pattern and crop-livestock mix was envisaged. The input output coefficients were estimated using unit level data of cost of cultivation scheme for the TE 2014 while the level of resource availability was estimated using secondary data. Goal programming model was developed to maximize net returns and minimize water use with set of physical, economic and environmental constraints. Five different scenarios were built by simulating various resource saving technologies and policy interventions. The findings suggested that currently the resources in the Bundelkhand region are used sub-optimally. Four out of five scenarios suggested to declining the area under paddy and wheat and even the plan with improved irrigation efficiency also indicated for capping the area under these crops up to existing level. Study brought out that increase area under sorghum, pulses and oilseeds (sesame) will help in utilising huge kharif fallow and also improve the crop-livestock integration in the region in turn augment the income of farmers. Plans with local cattle and small ruminants were found to be more profitable than the crop based plans. Inadequate infrastructural support for agriculture and farm credit were the most sensitive factor in the region, and provision of additional credit enhanced income as well as employment in the region. Study further found that though mentha is profitable crop but not sustainable from natural resource perspective. Development of agricultural sustainability barometer with special reference to rice–wheat production system: Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are the key milestones for economic and agricultural development across the globe. A composite agricultural sustainability indicator (CASI) was designed especially suitable for rice–wheat production system. The index covers four broad dimensions, viz. soil, water, ecological and economic encompassing 79 indicators. The barometer so developed was applied to gauge the sustainability of Trans-Gangetic plains of India.