 Indian National Soil Archive: An initiative was taken to establish Indian National Soil Archive (INSA) which will be helpful in studies related to Digital soil ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 101 SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY mapping, soil spectroscopy, comparison of current soil conditions in particular location to that of past, and other studies arising from the changing climatic conditions. INSA consists of: a soil sample storage room where soil samples are kept with QR code levels, a web application to create and update database on the soils and generation of QR codes and reports, and an android mobile application to scan the QR code to generate reports of a particular sample. Developed with the help of HTML, JavaScript, CSS, php, MySQL and GeoServer, the INSA also shows the user the availability of soil samples and database in a particular region on spatial maps. Hyper-spectral and multi-nutrient extractant based rapid assessment of soil properties: Optimal sampling design was developed to collect samples representing different Agro-ecological sub-regions (AESRs) of India by using conditioned Latin hypercube sampling (cLHS) approach. 3410 sampling locations within India representing different AESRs, soil types, landforms, terrain features,etc were selected and 886 surface soil samples from different locations were collected as per the sampling protocol established through cLHS design (ICAR-CAZRI: 305, ICAR-IISS: 105, ICAR-IARI: 69, ICAR-NBSS&LUP: 84, BCKV: 203, TNAU: 120). Collected soil samples (n=501) were analyzed for various soil properties including pH, electrical conductivity (EC), soil organic carbon (SOC), available nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), potassium (K) and DTPA extractable micronutrients (Fe, Mn, Zn and Cu). Result from descriptive analysis revealed a wide variation in soil properties, e.g. pH ranged from 9.6 to 9.36, EC ranged from 0.01 dS/m to 1.94 dS/m, SOC content ranged from 0.02 to 3.78%, available N content ranged from 80.0 to 596 kg/ha, available P content ranged from 0.99 to 124 kg/ha and available K content ranged from 36.0 to 1198 kg/ha. Similarly, DTPA extractable Zn, Fe, Mn and Cu content in soil samples varied from 0.11 to 13.6, 1.39 to 57.0, 1.94 to 118 and 0.16 to 9.13 mg/kg, respectively. Hyperspectral signatures of collected soil samples (n=628) from different AESRs were measured using spectroradiometer facility. Variation in spectral signatures of collected soil samples were noted. Overall height of the spectra, absorption features of the spectra and slope of the spectra at different spectral regions depend on the inherent composition of soil and thus these spectral signatures act as proxy of different soil property. Databases for geospatial mapping of multiple components under Abiotic Stress Information System: The Soil Chemical Quality Index has been calculated at village level for India using weighted sum approach.