 l Mass trapping programmes in weevil infested coconut plantations, successfully control the pest with no new reports of fresh infestation. l Different kairomone-releasing food baits indicated that dates when used in the pheromone traps gave the highest captures (62 weevils/trap), which was at par with sugarcane (49.33) and significantly different from coconut petiole (32.66) l Oil palm fruit when used in pheromone traps has a repelling effect on red-palm weevil adult. l The field life of the costly pheromone lure (800 mg Ferrolure +) can be extended for up to 6 months by setting traps under shade to attain slow release of the chemical into the environment. l The efficiency of the pheromone-trapping system can be maintained with even a low release of 0.13 mg per day. Release of ferrolure + in the field was significantly and negatively correlated (r = -0.59) to rainfall, while it was positively correlated (r = 0.43) to maximum temperature. l Carbofuran 3G (0.05 %) was found to be most suitable for use in red-palm weevil pheromone traps. l Field trials revealed that the best weevil captures were obtained when traps were serviced (replacing food bait and insecticidal solution) every 10 days. l A 2 months field trial during May and June 2002 with a formulation of pheromone lure developed by the CPCRI, Kayangulam, when tested separately with banana and coconut petiole, recorded mean weevil captures of 11.33 and 8.00 weevils/trap, respectively. However, the regular formulation (ferrolure +) with coconut petiole recorded a mean weevil catch of 18.66 weevils/trap. l Laboratory studies with 6 coconut cultivars, revealed that the coconut cultivar, Malayan Yellow Dwarf was least preferred by the weevil for egg laying. l Spatial distribution of red-palm weevil in coconut plantation showed that the pest was highly aggregated and followed the negative binomial pattern of distribution. Hence plantations in the vicinity of heavily infested palms are most prone to red-palm weevil attack and need protection from the pest. As a result of the above findings the use of pheromone trap to manage red-palm weevil in coconut is becoming popular among the farmers in the State and also elsewhere in the country. Pheromone traps used for cap- ture of red-palm weevil. The food-baited pheromone traps to manage red-palm weevil are appropriate and popular among the farmers Red-palm weevil adults. A sur- veillance programme to watch the activity of the pest indicated a higher incidence of red-palm weevil in coconut plantations of Goa NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 89 rooting of cuttings was achieved on treating with IBA 3000 ppm. Successful grafts were produced through cleft grafting method, and air layering was successful when air layers were treated with IBA at 3% power formulation. Vegetative Propagation of Chironjee and Amla A total of 178 chironjee plants have been established at the IGFARI, Jhansi, in 1 hectare area.