 It contains taluka wise soil micronutrients status of 536 different districts of 23 states of the country with recommendations in terms of rate, time and source of micronutrients for different crops and cropping systems for use by different stakeholders. Rhizobial diversity in the rhizosphere of pigeonpea: Diversity of microorganisms in the rhizosphere soil samples of pigeonpea, collected from 18 different sites of six districts of Madhya Pradesh was estimated by 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Most of the strains belonged to Bradyrhizobia sp. Abundance of rhizobial strains were enumerated by MPN to ascertain the presence of rhizobia in soil. Plant nodulation and symbiotic efficiency test of isolates was carried out by sand culture technique. About 700 strains of rhizobia were isolated and out of these 127 isolates were efficient for nodulation. Based on biochemical properties and PGPR attributes best 56 strains were further evaluated. DNA from these strains was isolated by alkali lysis method and BOX-PCR was performed in order to examine similar strains on the basis of banding pattern. Thirty-two strains were selected for 16S rRNA sequencing, acetylene reduction assay and whole genome sequencing. These strains exhibited high N fixing potential and nodulation efficiency compared to known strains. Microbial mediated in situ crop residue decomposition: In rice-wheat cropping system, huge quantities of rice straw are left for disposal after harvest of the crop and most of this remains unutilized in the field, encouraging the farmers to burn it especially in areas where the succeeding crop is to be sown only after a few days. The microbial consortia of two efficient and compatible halophilic bacterial lingo-cellulolytic strains having plant growth promotion traits were prepared in suitable standardized media as bio-formulation ‘Halo- CRD’ as decomposer for crop residues. These efficient degrading microbes can decompose crop residues and help in build up of soil carbon that can facilitate reclamation of sodic and saline-sodic soils. Inocula of consortia of CDMs along with whey resulted in decrease of stubble weight by 46.7% with maximum reduction of 59.8% compared to the initial weight of stubble. The C:N ratio of the residue material (stubbles and straw) decreased to 24:1 from 66.5:1, 35 days after inoculation of consortia with whey. The in situ degradation of paddy residue also significantly enhanced the yield of succeeding wheat crop. Three season data indicated that inoculation of residue with consortia of degrading microbes along with whey helps in faster in situ degradation of paddy residues. The outcome of the study will facilitate utilization of the residues for recycling nutrients, enhance soil microbial activity and C enrichment to promote bio-remediation apart from saving energy that helps in achieving desired level of production and health management of salt-affected soils.