 The erstwhile Pond Culture Division of ICAR-CIFRI at Cuttack had been instrumental in developing most of the basic technologies of seed rearing in carp followed during the 1980s. Thereafter, a lot of efforts have gone to improvise the rearing method with the judicious use of resources with the production of quality seeds of important freshwater cultured species. The present-day packages of practices of nursery and rearing with simpler pond maintenance, efficient input use and high seed survival have helped in increasing the survival levels of 50- 60% in the nursery and 60-80% in the fingerlings rearing phase, thereby making the seed rearing quite farmers-friendly as well as an economically viable activity. The possibility of achieving 4-6 times higher fry yield per unit area with the use of large-concrete tanks has been demonstrated and following the practice, the farmers have been taking at least three crops in such a system during a season. The concept of the ‘cluster approach’ of farming is increasingly popularised now-a-days that involves a group of farmers in a locality practicing a similar type of activity (seed rearing). Such a concept has increased technology infiltration and effective adoption of scientific practices in farming, resulting in higher production, and more knowledge and economic empowerment of the farmers. “Cluster seed village’ is a typical successful model Local Self-Reliance in Aquaculture and Fisheries: Gandhian Models 52 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR working in several places, viz., Naihati in West Bengal for production and supply of fish seed to different parts of the country. The popularity of fingerlings and larger seed for grow-out stocking has increased among the farmers and is being promoted with special emphasis through many schemes and promotional policies. Protocols are available for the production of stunted fingerlings and yearlings to ensure round the year seed availability which has enabled the farmers to practice fish fattening through short-duration culture rather than long-term farming. Unlike the traditional concept of raising only table fish in ponds irrespective of the pond size, the farmers now-a-days are going for customized use of the ponds depending on the market demand of the different life-stages of carps and other fish species. Such a trend has improved the linkage among the small, marginal and large farmers in the sector. 2.1.2. Grow-out farming The development of the technology of ‘Composite fish culture’ is considered as another important breakthrough which virtually has laid the foundation of commercial freshwater fish culture in India. Over the years, ICAR through its research institutes and collaborations with other organizations has implemented several schemes to popularize this technology. The National Demonstration Project (NDP) launched in 1965 was a megaproject undertaken for technology demonstration in farmers’ fields at that juncture.