ku ds dq’ky mi;ksx dk leFkZu djus okyk cqfu;knh <kapk] cktkj esa fcpkSfy;ksa dks de djuk ‘kkfey gSA blds lkFk gh lwpuk çkS|ksfxdh Økafr] —f”k esa uÃ çkS|ksfxdh] fo’ks”k :i ls vuqlaèkku vkSj fodkl ij futh fuos’k] NksVh tksr ,oa mit vkfn dh leL;kvksa ds lekèkku ds fy, lgdkjh@lewg vkèkkfjr ç;kl (FPO) —f”k dk psgjk cny jgs gSaA rduhdh ,oa çks|ksfxdh vkèkkfjr —f”k fodkl dh uÈo j[kh tk jgh gS] ftlesa vkÃlh,vkj dh Hkwfedk vfr egRoiw.kZ gSA vkÃlh,vkj ds }kjk fodflr [kjhQ 2021 ds fy, ,xzks ,Mokbtjh fdlkuksa dks uohure ,oa lkef;d tkudkjh igqapkus esa lQy gksxhA ¼dSyk’k pkSèkjh½ Office : 199Q, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi-110 001. Tel. : +91-11-23782343, 23388165 Fax : 23074190 xi Foreword COVID-19 pandemic has tested the core strength of mankind and the second wave seems to be testing the very basic instinct for survival. Amidst the chaos, agriculture in India has been the ray of hope for the food and livelihood security and acted as a defence mechanism against economic breakdown. During 2020, the food grain production in the country has crossed the milestone of 300 million tons with record productions of paddy, wheat and pulses. Further accomplishing targets like 25 million tons production of pulses and 37.6 million tons of oilseeds by 2021-22 would require impetus on adoption of latest farming practices and technology up-gradation at the grass root level. Alongside, prediction of normal season rainfall for Southwest monsoon during 2021 by Indian Meteorological Department gives high hopes from the nation’s rainfed agriculture that accounts for nearly half of the net sown area. The achievements in the previous year, despite first wave of COVID-19, can majorly be attributed to the policy decisions that benefitted farmers of every nooks and corners of the country, be it input availability, accessibility to machines in wake of labour reverse migration, marketing support, etc. However, the disruption seems to be even more devastating during the second wave and operations/ logistics can be anticipated to get seriously affected during pre-kharif and kharif periods. Therefore, promoting best agricultural practices for enhancing farm production and income, while ensuring optimum use of resources, is at the heart of ICAR’s kharif season agro-advisory. This document is meant to serve the farmers of the country across 28 states and 8 union territories engaged in farming and allied activities covering major crops, livestock and fisheries. I congratulate Agricultural Extension Division of ICAR and its all 11 ATARIs, who have come out with publication for the benefit of farmers in regional languages also. (T. Mohapatra) Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR xiii PREFACE Indian farmers, while responding to the threats posed by lockdown due to COVID-19 during 2020, have proven why agriculture is called the backbone of the nation.