 Crop yields and agricultural efficiency can be improved by collecting information using agricultural drones and also by using the soil monitoring devices to monitor the soil parameters such as pH, Temperature, humidity and sol nutrients etc. Part B 3. Architectural considerations a. Data management Resnet-based deep learning model has been used to design the training model of this project for real-time and large-scale processing. The main idea behind this model is to speed up the analysis of a huge amount of data by overlapping executions (multi-tasking) in order to make the most of the learning relationships between the data flows. In addition, the sliding window technique has been used in the learning process. b. System architecture A robust drone-based deep learning approach is proposed to overcome the limitations of existing approaches, as shown in Figure-1. A more specific improvement has been made to efficient RestNetV by adding dense layers at the end of the architecture. The customized EfficientNetV2-B4 calculates the deep key points and classifies them in their related classes by utilizing an end-to-end training architecture. To evaluate the performance of a drone system, a standard dataset along with samples captured using a drone are used, which is complicated by the fact that there is a variety of image samples with diverse conditions under which the images are captured. Average precision, recall, and accuracy values of 99.63, 99.93, and 99.99%, respectively have been achieved. Figure 1- AI model process Disease identification Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Part B 3. spread of the disease, and what type & quantity of pesticides to use. These UAVs can also protect crops from animal and human predators. The purpose of agricultural drones is to optimize agricultural operations, increase crop production, and monitor crop growth. Farmers can monitor their fields using sensors and digital imaging. Crop yields and agricultural efficiency can be improved by collecting information using agricultural drones and also by using the soil monitoring devices to monitor the soil parameters such as pH, Temperature, humidity and sol nutrients etc. Architectural considerations a. Data management Resnet-based deep learning model has been used to design the training model of this project for real-time and large-scale processing. The main idea behind this model is to speed up the analysis of a huge amount of data by overlapping executions (multi-tasking) in order to make the most of the learning relationships between the data flows. In addition, the sliding window technique has been used in the learning process. b. System architecture A robust drone-based deep learning approach is proposed to overcome the limitations of existing approaches, as shown in Figure-1. A more specific improvement has been made to efficient RestNetV by adding dense layers at the end of the architecture.