 Critical limits for heavy metals: Growth reduction of spinach crop due to high doses of lead was more in alluvial soil compared to black soil and absent in red and laterite soil. Chromium showed phytotoxicity only in alluvial soil. Soil Pb contents causing 20% reduction in above ground biomass yield of spinach were computed as 393 mg/kg for black soil and 168 mg/kg for alluvial soil. Similarly, soil Cr content causing 20% reduction in above ground biomass yield of spinach was computed as 265 mg/kg for alluvial soil. Transfer coefficient of lead in alluvial soil was higher as compared to black, red and laterite soils indicating more uptake of Pb by spinach in the former soil. Transfer coefficient of chromium was lower in red and laterite soil as compared to black and alluvial soil. Heavy metals extracted by dilute (0.01M) CaCl2 are considered available for plant uptake. Dilute (0.01M) CaCl2 extractable Pb and Cr were strongly correlated to their concentrations in above ground biomass of spinach. A method of determination of critical limits of heavy metals in soil has been developed earlier. Determination of lead and cadmium concentration limits in agricultural soil and municipal solid waste compost through an approach of zero tolerance to food contamination was developed. Maximum safe concentration limits (based on food contamination approach) of total and available (0.01M CaCl2 extractable) Pb and Cr in different types of experimental soils Critical limits Critical limits of of total heavy 0.01M CaCl2 metals extractable heavy metals Pb Cr Pb Cr Black soil 143 52 0.007 0.018 Red and laterite soil 78 332 0.002 0.071 Alluvial soil 84 87 0.006 0.034 Cost -effective drainage solutions for waterlogged saline Vertisols STCR mobile App: Bilingual (Marathi and English) STCR mobile App for fertilizer recommendations of Maharashtra was developed in collaboration with SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 13 Soil and water productivity ASTCR Mobile APP National Informatics Centre (NIC), Pune. Based on resource endowment capacity of farmers, the App helps realize the targeted yield of crops. Farmers can get the precise fertilizer recommendations based on soil test value and for a specific yield target. The STCR prescription equations for sugarcane, wheat, upland paddy, transplanted paddy, pearl millet, kharif sorghum, dryland rabi sorghum, finger millet, fodder maize, Bt cotton, groundnut, soybean, sunflower, pigeon pea, green gram, chickpea, okra, brinjal, cabbage, cauliflower, potato, tomato, turmeric, chill, onion, garlic, marigold, bitter gourd, banana, and maize are included in the STck mobile App. livestock, fishery, and other components like vermicompost, biogas unit and composting unit developed in lower Gangetic plains agroclimatic region in Kalyani, West Bengal, recorded higher sustainability yield index (SYI) of 0.