 Due to intervention of ICAR- CISH through farmers first project, GI tag (G-125) for Malihabadi Dusseri was obtained in collaboration with Avadh Mango Grower Society and an FPO ‘Farmer Interest Group (FIG) which facilitated the farmers to sell their produce at a premium price of Rs. 60 kg-1 (DARE/ ICAR 2019) 3.4. Contribution to ecosystem services Any benefit accrued to the environment and in turn to humankind from any component of an ecosystem, either plant or animal or landscape is referred to as ecosystem service and of late this concept has become popular an indicator of the health of a given natural entity. For instance, natural ecosystems act as water filters. They are habitat for diverse flora and fauna including the wild bees and natural enemies, which are important as pollinators and biocontrol agents. In addition, people may even find an aesthetic pleasure, inspiration and recreation. Horticultural ecosystems encompassing perennial trees, herbs and associated flora and fauna have a great potential to contribute to the environment beyond regular crop yields. Systematic 19 studies were undertaken by Indian Institute of Horticultural Research to understand and assess the extent of ecosystem services provided by multi-varietal mango orchards. It was established that the multi-varietal mango orchards comprising trees of different morphology and phenology provide an array of benefits compared to a mono-varietal orchard. The pollinator fauna in multi- varietal orchard was denser and diverse because of the availability of floral resources for longer periods due to differential flowering periods of different varieties. The species composition and abundance of wild pollinators including honeybees, flies, butterflies and wasps was 2-3 times higher in multi-varietal orchards. Besides pollinators, the beneficial arthropods like predatory beetles and spiders were significantly high in multi-varietal mango orchards. They also contributed in terms of adding organic matter to the soil, and carbon sequestration. It was evident that the multi-varietal orchards offered several non-marketable ecosystem services besides providing farmer with a variety of fruits with uniqueness. Honeybees are an integral part of any agro-ecosystem as they provide the most essential ecosystem service i.e., pollination. Hence honeybees should not be treated as mere honey producers but as the most valuable partners of the ecosystem and their contributions to the rural livelihood as well as sustaining the crop biodiversity should be appreciated. The enhancement in yield of horticultural crops like mango, guava, citrus, cucurbits and onion due to bee pollination both in terms of quantitative and qualitative parameters has been quantified. Honeybees and horticulture could complement each other and add to the income of farmers as well as the health of environment. 3.5.