 Reduced tillage, anaerobic composting, using organic fertilizers, mulching, intercropping, multi- cropping, and lot of other techniques specially designed for particular regions, populations and climatic zones are used. yy Establishing fuel, fodder and fruit components and protecting those present already on the farms. yy Planting of multiple crops belonging to different families for supporting biodiversity. Crop mixes promotes resilience through balancing the ecology thus reduces the risk of crop failures due to pest attack. Multiple cropping further enhances the risk exposure for farmers against unreliable rainfall. In present context, research work done under ICAR-All India Network programme on Organic Farming, Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology, Udaipur and several other research projects, indicate that organic farming is more economic when local resource based inputs are used in the production packages. 7.1. ICAR Initiatives on Low Input Natural Farming A multi-location study on “Evaluation and validation of Natural Farming Practices in different Organic and Low Input Agriculture: Gandhian Way 94 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Agro-ecologies” has been initiated from Kharif 2020 at 20 locations covering 16 States and 8 cropping systems. Components of the study are yy Geo-tagged survey of natural farming farmers field (covers 16 States) yy Characterization of inputs (Jeevamrit, Ghanjivamrit, Beejamrit, Agniastra, Neemastra and Brahmastra) at selected location (Narendrapur, Coimbatore, Udaipur, Ludhiana and Calicut). yy On-station field experiment on “Evaluation of Natural Farming Practices In Different Agro- ecology” at 19 locations in 15 States yy Addition of natural farming input in the existing long-term experiment on comparative evaluation of different production systems (20 locations in 16 States) yy Validation of natural farming practices in farmer’s field under SCSP/ STC sub plans (7 locations in 7 States) 8. Success Stories 8.1. Meghalaya (Integrated Organic Farming System cluster) Mynsain village in Meghalaya was adopted under Scheduled Tribe Component (STC) of All India Network Programme on Organic Farming for demonstration of organic food production through integrated farming systems approach. A total of 120 households having area of about 60 ha were covered to demonstrate and promote organic farming using cluster approach. Scientific interventions such as development of pond, jalkunds, community vermicomposting unit, raised and sunken beds and fruit tree plantations were made to achieve the Gram Swaraj philosophy of Mahatma Gandhiji in Mynsain village of Meghalaya. Organic food production using IOFS approach resulted in saving of costs on account of purchased nutrients, better recycling, safe food and balanced nutrition to the family besides eco-friendly agriculture giving higher returns for the marginal and small farmers in the region.