 The research question of this paper was: what were the effects of conversion of forest land uses to agriculture at Ranchi, India on SOC pools, soil aggregation and aggregate-associated C? The samples were taken from six different land uses viz. native forest (NF), agri-horticulture (AH), native grass land (NG), rice-wheat (RW), rice- vegetable (RV) and maize-wheat (MW) from three soil depths (0–15, 15–30 and 30–45 cm). Soil aggregation, SOC pools and aggregate-associated C were determined. Results revealed that SOC concentration in NF was 36%, 67% and 127% higher than RW, RV and MW land uses, respectively, at 0–15 cm depth. The microbial biomass carbon (MBC) was higher in NF land uses than rice-based systems in the soil surface (0–15 cm) due to less disturbance. In surface soils (0–15 cm depth) under NF, the large macroaggregates had 21% and 40% higher SOC concentration than RW and RV, respectively. Similarly, NF soil had larger small macroaggregate-associated C than RW, RV and MW systems in the 0–15 and 15–30 cm layers. This result supports that tillage and regular crop removal under arable (MW, RW and RV) systems adversely affect loss of SOC contents in the surface layers and C storage inside aggregates, both in the 0–15 and 15–30 cm soil layers at Ranchi, India. 1. Introduction Land use change initially involves the modification of natural eco­ systems to provide resources for human society. The conversion of land to agricultural use, e.g. food crops and forage for animals, and forestry for timber products and fibre, is responsible for more land use change than any other and these changes cause tremendous effect on soil organic matter (SOM) status. As carbon is one of the components of SOM, the physical, chemical and biological properties of the native soils are also affected by its content. SOM decomposition also influenced greatly by the soil aeration, temperature, water content and soil cover (Ashagrie et al., 2007) which are indirectly related with land use changes. Higher is the freshly deposited litter like leaves, branches, twigs; higher will be the decomposed products like humus. Kramer and Gleixner (2006) reported that the microbial biomass of soil and added plant residues are the main sources of SOM. SOM also enhances the physico-chemical properties of soil; reduces bulk density, increases water and nutrient holding capacities, CEC and plant productivity as a whole. Many studies had reported that the labile fraction of the organic matter is more sensitive indicator of changes in soil quality instead of the total SOM as it causes many vital interaction with other soil components (Haynes, 2005). The SOM are also separated for their chemically active and refractory nature and divided into different pools which contributes to their perseverance in soil (Sutton and Sposito, 2005; Rovira and Vallejo, 2007) and also different functions in soil and its ecology. Sierra et al.