 Mango kernel can also be used for citric acid production using A. niger. Pulper waste The peel and fibrous material of the pulp after juice extraction from whole fruit is termed as pulper waste. This material could be utilized to manufacture juice, nectar, etc. by treating it with pectic enzymes for better liquefaction. The recovery of the juice was found to be 75-80% from the waste pulp and 51% from peel. The quality of the nectar prepared from the pulp supplemented with juice, recovered from mango waste, was found acceptable. ICAR-CISH has developed fibre enriched biscuits from this waste after some pre-treatments. Utilization of waste is both a necessity and challenge. This will not only economize the cost of finished product, increase profitabilty and reduce the pollution level, but also lead to more complete utilisation of the raw material. For further interaction, please write to: Neelima Garg (Principal Scientist and I/C Head), Division of Post Harvest Management, ICAR-CISH, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 227 101. *Corresponding author e-mail: neelimagargg@gmail.com Mango processing Mango pulp Mango waste Indian Horticulture 60 Ravi S C, S Rajan* and Anil Kumar Verma Status and prospects of Indian mango export industry Mango (Mangifera indica) is Asia's most popular fruit, and it has gained popularity around the world. It has long been a component of culture and religion as a useful and tasty fruit. In addition to taste, it has many good qualities, thus making it to be called as ‘King of Fruits’. Mango is grown in an area of 5.58 million hectares of area in the world. India is the largest producer of mangoes with 46.02% and 45.88% of the total world area and production, respectively. Thus, India has immense potential to assert a strong presence in the global mango market, which is still under-developed. Prospects I n India, mango is grown in an area of 2.26 million ha with a production of 21.82 million tonnes and productivity of 9.66 tonnes per ha during 2017-18. India is blessed with different agro-climatic conditions and is a home for more than 1000 different cultivars of mango. Inspite of this, only few varieties are being exported. Alphonso, Totapuri, Kesar, Dashehari, Rajapuri, Banganapalli are leading export varieties of mango from India. Though India is the largest producer of mango in the world, its share in global export of mangoes is not utilized fully. Important market for Indian mangoes The export value of fresh mangoes has increased from 200.53 crore rupees in 2009-10 to 400.21 crore rupees in 2019-20. The major destinations of cumulative export quantity of mangoes from India during 2000 to 2010 were Bangladesh (47.67%), United Arab Emirates (31.33%), Nepal (5.95%), Saudi Arabia (3.86%), United Kingdom (2.87%) and Baharain (1.24%) whereas export to other countries was less than one percent of the total exports. Major junk of the Indian mangoes was exported only to the nearest countries like Bangladesh, UAE and Nepal (84.