 As technology continues to advance, the rainfed agriculture is likely to witness further innovations and improvements in commodity supply chains and usher in engineering integrated digital technologies with appliances, machinery and tools. These technologies are crucial in rainfed agriculture to ensure that the produce retains its nutritional value, flavour, texture, and overall market appeal. Potential rainfed agriculture value chains Before embarking on possibilities of potential rainfed agriculture systems, ways and means to realize them, it is prudent and prerequisite to study a successful model. Everlasting success story of framers’ co-operative based supply chains, is of Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd. (GCMMF). It is first successful FPO of independent India. It brought cheers into the lives of many poor farmers, who are owners of the Amul brand. By analysing the factors responsible for success of this case, key takeaways can be delineated to adopt/adapt them in rainfed agriculture systems. Cursory search, of generalized literature on Amul success story, explains the overall factors responsible as innovation, efficient supply chain involving three tier cooperative system to augment capacities, strengthening of Amul brand and connecting to entire nation through witty and clever Ads of Amul girl, diversified product portfolio and backward as well as forward integration of entire supply chains. However, deeper analysis of situation at the start, i.e. 1970s, throws light on the role of engineering acumen of father of White Revolution Dr. Verghese Kurien. The foundation for this success was laid by the concept of converting surplus milk, collected in seasons when abundant milk is produced, into skim milk powder and reformulating the skim milk powder into milk for supply in lean season. This helped to even out the fresh milk supply fluctuations and led to strengthening of Amul brand. The invisible factor, often forgotten/not recognised, is the role of engineering interventions. GCMMF had the subsidiary Indian Dairy Machinery Company Ltd. (IDMC) to address the concern of affordable dairy machinery and equipment. It supplied all the machinery as well as installation, testing and commissioning of dairy plants to different dairy cooperatives in India and helped in scaling up dairy operations across the country. As the time is ripe for establishing rainfed agriculture systems, the lessons from White Revolution can be well adapted suiting to present and future trends with main focus to usher in enabling environment with adequate supply of machinery equipment and process suiting the requirements. Following are two example cases discussed and there could be many more and each case needs to assessed specifically. Millets: Millets are climate-resilient and nutritious grains.