 2305 (d) Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 2498 Treatment of stomach problem in cattle Volume 2, supplement I, page 117 Nutmeg, onion, tobacco and thymol Nutmeg: Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi and Marathi: ya/p/ia/ (fruit kernel), japatri, jotri, jayapatri (aril); Kannada, Malayalam, Tamil and Telugu: jajikai, jadikai (fruit kernel), jadipattiri, japatri (aril). Onion: Refer to ITK Code No.689 Tobacco: Refer to ITK No. 139 Nutmeg: Nutmeg tree Nutmeg: Myristicafragrans Houtt. Nutmeg: The percentage of volatile oil in nutmeg varies from 6 to 16%. Nutmeg is stimulant, carminative, astringent and aphrodisiac. It is used in tonic and electuaries and forms a constituent of preparation prescribed for dysentery, stomachache, flatulence, nausea, vomiting, malaria, rheumatisms, sciatica and early stage of leprosy. Nutmeg: A dioecious or occasionally monoecious evergreen, aromatic tree, usually 9-12 m high, but sometimes reaching a height 20 m or more. Bark grayish black, longitudinally fissured in old trees; leaves elliptic or oblong- lanceolate, coriaceous; flowers in umbellate cymes, creamy yellow, fragrant; fruits yellow, broadly pyriform or globose, 6-9 cm long, glabrous, often drooping: pericarp fleshy, 1.25 cm thick, splitting into 2 halves at maturity; seed broadly ovoid, arillate, albuminous, with a shell-like purplish brown testa; aril red, fleshy, laciniate. It is a native of Moluccas, now cultivated in many tropical countries of both hemispheres. In India it is grown in Tamil Nadu state (Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Salem, Ramanathapuram, Tirunel-veli, Kanyakumari and Madurai districts); a few trees are found in various localities of Karela, Assam and other states. Habit Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK : 2555 : Feeding of mango pickle for relieving animals from stomach pain : Volume 2, supplement I, page 119 : Mango Refer to ITK Code No. 1871 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2634 Use of solution oipalas seeds for deworming in calving animals Volume 2, supplement I, page 119 Palas Refer to ITK Code No. 1383 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2583 Use of solution of amaltas seeds and jaggery for deworming in calf Volume 2, supplement I, page 119 Amaltas Refer to ITK Code No. 784 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2547 Control of worm infestation in cattle Volume 2, supplement I, page 121 Papaya Refer to ITK Code No. 1261 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2546 Use of banana flower to heal intestinal ulcer Volume 2, supplement I, page 122 Banana Refer to ITK Code No.