 The products prepared using composite flour of blanched pearl millet: sorghum: dehusked oat: germinated chickpea in ratios of 60:10:10:20 and blanched pearl millet: sorghum: dehusked oat: germinated chickpea: tulsi leaves powder in ratios of 60:10:10:15:5 were found to be most acceptable organoleptically and nutritionally superior as compared to wheat based products (control). It could be stored in polythene bags at room temperature (25–30°C) for 3 months and were acceptable up to 3 months. Supplementation of tulsi leaves powder caused significant reduction in fat acidity and peroxide value in all stored instant mixes. • Supplementation of tulsi at 5% level further increased the nutritional value of products in respect of available minerals (calcium, iron and zinc), in vitro protein and starch digestibility. The antioxidants activity (total phenolic content and DPPH free radical scavenging activity) of all the products blended with tulsi was better. Natural Resource Management • Compatibility among the plant growth promoting bacteria (PGPB) was assessed to identify the prospective PGPB for consortium formulation. The W1 (Bacillus sp.), S36 (Salinicola sp.), SV4 (Bacillus sp.), RP8 (Enterobacter sp.), NR4 (Pseudomonas sp.) and Avi2 (Azotobacter sp.) were most potent PGPB. However, they differentially retained PGP functions under 6% NaCl, CO2 and 40°C stresses. Maintenance of all PGP functions by S36 under different stress (but 40°C) adjudged it as the most effective stress tolerant PGPB. • The Swarna, Naveen and salt tolerant Luna Sankhi seeds treated with 108 bacteria/ml resulted in 100% germination and improved radical/plumule length, root/shoot fr./dr. wt., tiller/leaf no., 100 grain/panicle wt. etc. Single treatment with 1.2×108 cells/ml or second treatment after 5 d growth with 1.2×105 cells/ml had better effect on Swarna seedlings. • FRET tagged diazotroph (Avi2) confirmed colonization and upward migration of the endophytic PGPB through the natural or injury openings of the roots. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 116 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT Fishery Sciences • Standardized the methodology of brooder rearing of striped snakehead (Channa striatus), in cement tank and raised 100 brooders of both sexes to complete maturity with 100% survival. Successfully spawned 20 females with accuracy of 100% breeding success in indoor conditions. The problem of assessment of full maturity in male was solved. This practice will now facilitate hatchery seed production of striped snakehead to serve as a high valued diversified species in aquaculture. • Produced 2 lakh early fry. Protocol of weaning larvae on commercial pellet diet for raising fingerling was standardized. Produced 11,000 fingerling (size 40–50 mm) weaned on commercial floating pellet diet for experimental grow-out production. Supplied 10,000 feed weaned fingerling to 3 farmers of Lucknow and Barabanki districts for experimental grow-out production.