 Training on Cotton Quality Evaluation The CIRCOT, Mumbai organized training courses in Cotton Quality Evaluation and also on specialized instrument operation like H VI and AFIS. The training at the headquarters comprise informative lectures and a series of practical demonstrations along with visits to the Textile Industries to get practical knowledge on the subject. During the period 64 trainees received training on Cotton Quality Evaluation in 8 batches. There was also a specialized training course in HVI and AFIS in which there were 9 trainees in 2 batches apart from thirty-two trainees from Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Marketing Board, Bhopal who attended the course in 3 batches. Training was imparted to a cotton specialist from South Africa during the current year. Training on Ginning At the Ginning Training Centre, Nagpur training was imparted to gin fitters, operators and managerial staff on gin operation. During the period there were over 200 sponsored personnel from ginning factories and cotton trade organizations who benefited from the ginning training. This training also had field visits to the ginning and pressing factories to give the trainees first hand information on the problems in the ginning factories and their possible remedies. Training on Automation of Pressurized Irrigation System A training on Automation of Pressurized Irrigation System was organized. A total of 24 participants from ICAR Institutes, SAUs, State Departments and CIAE participated in the programme. Subjects like automation of irrigation systems, hydraulics of pressurized pipes, soil-plant-water relationships, crop water requirement, design of drip and sprinkler systems, fertigation and filtration, crop monitoring, irrigation accessories and water quality were dealt with in detail through lectures and audio-visual aids. Training of farm women scientists on operation of rice transplanter at Bhopal DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 154 Agricultural Human Resource Development ● Based on the All India Competitive Examination, 1084 students in 10 disciplines of UG programme and 1051 in 70 disciplines of PG programme sought admission to State Agricultural Universities and Deemed Universities on merit and counselling. At PG level all students were moved to other universities to reduce inbreeding ● KAU, Thrissur ranked first with 62 JRF while TNAU, Coimbatore with 52 and GBPUAT, Pantnagar with 40 rated second and third in ICAR Entrance Test for the academic session 2001-2002 VCs’ Conference CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT STATE AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITIES Aligarh Muslim University ● Course contents and syllabus of all the programmes have been revised and updated during 2000-2001. ● Teachers of Department of Agricultural Economics and Business Management have brought out useful study materials. ● Linkages have been developed among different departments of Agriculture Education of the University and other organizations for better developmental interaction.