 Revolutions such as Green, Blue, White and many others have generated enough food; famines have become a thing of the past. Now we have to work on happiness and parameters on which happiness of the country depends are GDP per capita, healthy years of life expectancy, social support, trust (absence of corruption in govt. and business), freedom to make life decisions, generosity and environmental social, urban and natural factors. We have to work on these parameters to make everyone happy and to make our planet happy. Our planet is getting angry and its temperature is rising; we have to make the planet cool and happy. If we all are happy, agriculture is taken care of and the planet will become happy. Key takeaway Integrated farming system is the future for sustainable agriculture. 170 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series INDIAN TRADITIONAL WISDOM OF FOOD FOR BETTER NUTRITION AND HEALTH S.K. Sharma Ayurveda is the science of life. It preserves the health and it cures diseases. Food is very important for life. The origin of human being, their health as well their diseases are all in a way caused by food. The principles of Ayurveda are based on Panchmahabhutas (five element theory). Combination of five elements is signified in Tridosha — Vata (Earth + Air), Pitta (Fire) and Kapha (Water + Earth). Ayurveda has recognized three sub pillars (Upasthambhas) — Ahara, Nidra and Brahmacharya — vital for running healthy and secure life. And Ahara has been deliberated as one of the best sustainer of life (Vrittikaranam Sreshtam). A well-balanced diet in Ayurveda is based on the Panchabhautic composition and Tridoshas impact living being. The Food Nutrition and Science of Dietetics is interwoven in the matrix of Ayurveda. It is popularly said, if you follow good diet regimen there will be no illness. And during illness and treatment if you don’t follow good food & dietary regimen, the Dr S.K. Sharma is well known in the field of Ayurveda. One of his famous book is on Kshar Sutra Therapy in Ano-Rectal Disorder. His book entitled Medicinal Plants used in Ayurveda is often referred one. 171 Health and Good Living medicine and treatment will be futile. The food items when consumed by a person gives beneficial – wholesome effects (Hitaahara – Pathya) and unwholesome – bad effects (Ahitaahara – Apathaya). Food products can be consumed in four ways — as a drink, as an eatable, as a chewable and as lickable (Linctus). The food has twenty qualities (gunas) in pairs each pair of opposite attributes — heaviness & lightness, cold & hot, unctuousness & Dryness, dullness & sharpness, stability & fluidity, softness & hardness, no sliminess & sliminess, smoothness & roughness, subtleness & grossness, solidity & liquidity. Health-conscious citizens around the globe would benefit from the wealth of knowledge on traditional Indian and ayurvedic health foods of Indian origin.