 These pests suck the sap from the tender leaves thereby causing stunted growth of the plant. Moreover these pests are responsible for the spread of the leaf curl disease caused by the virus. To control these sucking pests the juice obtained from the ‘'date palm’' (Phoenix sylvestris) is used. Approximately 1-1.5 litre is mixed with 15 litres water. It is then sprayed on the vegetable crop. If needed, another round of spraying can be done after 10 days. This practice has no side effect (Dahod, Gujarat). Katara (1999) 167 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 28 Controlling Nilgai menance in 'chiku' plantation Small plants of 'chiku' (Achrus zapota) are often damaged by nilgais. They eat away the tender twigs and leaves of the 'chiku' plant. The nilgai particularly damage the plants that emit milky substance. To prevent this damage, a mixture of cowdung and water was sprinkled on the top branches of chiku plants with the help of a broom. It was observed that although nilgais enter the orchard, they do not eat the tender twigs and leaves of 'chiku' because of the foul odour. The mixture was regularly sprinkled on the ‘'Chiku’'plants every 15-20 days (Mehsana, Gujarat). Patel (1998a) 29 Incrasing brinjal yields through use of neem kernel extract To increase brinjal yields, seedlings are soaked overnight in neem kernel extract prior to planting. Farmers also apply neem kernel powder in paddy as a basal dose, and again 35 days after planting. The powder is also used as top dressing for brinjal and tomato (@ 40 kg/acre). These preparations are better than equivalent applications of neem cake (Kuppanam-patti, Tamil Nadu). Thevar (1994) 30 Protecting coffee plant from stem- borer by Nerium oleander About 400 g of the root of Nerium oleander are cut into small pieces and soaked in 1,500 ml of water. To this 20 g turmeric powder is added and paste is made. The paste is applied to the infected portion of the stem in such a way that the insects come out of it and die (Hassan, Karnataka). Basavaraju (2000) 31 Control of bacterial diseases,white fly and aphid in vegetables by palm juice In order to prevent infestation, juice from tadi (Phoenix sylvestris) tree is diluted in 15 lit of water and spryed in the infected plants to control pest and diseases (Dahod, Gujarat). Katara (2000) 32 Control of mite in coconut A mixture of Aloe vera, Vitex negundu and neem cake is applied around the trunk of coconut tree followed by covering with cowdug slurry cotrols eriophyid mite in coconut (Kunninathur, Tamil Nadu). Samyapam (2000) 168 HORTICULTURAL CROPS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 33 Effect of indigenous methods in controlling soft rot of ginger On-farm trials were conducted in the farmers’ fields of Kandhamal district during 1990-2000 and 2000-2001 to control the soft rot of ginger (Zingiber officinale) by the indigenous methods vis-à-vis recommended practices.