 This innovation received excellent Devaliya, taluka Babra, district: Amreli, Saurashtra (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content FARM IMPLEMENTS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2952 Improved sugarcane rotavator response from Indian Science Congress at Pune and Swadeshi Vigyan Mela, Delhi. Students at MIT, Boston have developed business plan for this technology. National Institute of Design, Ahmedabad is working on improving the design as a part of GRIDS (Grassroots Innovations Design Studio). Keywords: bullet motorcycle, interculturing, sowing, spraying Sugarcane is one of the major cash crops in India. After the crop is cut, huge bagasse and stem waste are left over on the field, standing. The length of these stems may rise up to 1 ft above as well as below the ground. Traditionally, the waste was burnt and then the land was cleared for further use. Apart from the waste removal, burning the field caused degradation of soil fertility reduced the productivity and led to drying of the soil. This also caused air pollution in the vicinity. Shri Rambhai Patel has an experience of 25 years in farming, and during this time, he noted down the difficulties faced by him and devised an improved sugarcane rotavator. The implement is being mounted on 20 H.P. tractor. The twin rotors are connected through the chain and sprocket mechanism with the coupler, which gets the power input from the tractor and is used to uproot the sugarcane left-over stems and crush them, so that they can be used as a natural manure in the field. Attributes of the machine are: (i) the use of two rotors, the specified orientation and material selection of the blade is innovative in the machine; (ii) it can effectively cut the sugarcane stems in one go, whereas the conventional rotavator is to be Shri Rambhai Patel Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2953 Labour-saving seed drill operated 3-4 times on the same field; (iii) the total cost incurred by the innovator in developing the prototype is nearly Rs 2 lakhs; (iv) it protects farmers from the smoke of the fire that was lit to burn the left-over stems by traditional practice. Keywords: bagasse, sugarcane, rotavator, fertility, soil, smoke After 25 years of experimentation, Shri G. Somasundaram of Tiruchirapalli in Tamil Nadu has developed a hand- pushed seed drill with one or two tynes, a bullock-drawn seed-drill with 3 to 5 tynes, and a tractor-mounted seed-drill with 6 to 11 tynes. He has patented these implements. The simple, hand-pushed implement is made of steel frames and wooden handle. It has one to two tynes, and it can be used to sow a variety of millets and other bold- seeded crops.