 In the past decade alone, 280 new fish cell lines were established from 44 fish families in 21 countries. Maintenance and long-term storage of cell lines are as important as developing these cell lines. Depositing a cell line in a depository not only provides recognition to the developer, but also enables other researchers to obtain and use them, preventing duplication of work. These depositories are important not only to store and preserve genetic material but can also be useful as a conservation tool in case of certain exigencies, such as species loss due to natural calamities, over fishing etc. American Type Culture Collection (ATCC), European Collections of Cell Cultures (ECACC), German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (DSMZ) etc. are some popular and trusted depositories of cell lines. It is observed that the majority of the fish cell lines in these depositories belong to temperate freshwater species, having commercial importance in Europe and America. With extensive research in aquaculture and fisheries in Asian countries, like China, India, Vietnam, Thailand etc., there has been an increase in the development of cell lines from the Asian continent. Thus, there emerging needs to cater the demand of the cell lines of Asian fish species, which led to the establishment of cell line depositories. To provide a platform to deposit fish cell lines developed in India, a depository, named National Repository of Fish Cell Lines (NRFC), was established at ICAR- National Bureau of Fish Genetics Research (NBFGR), Lucknow, India, in 2010 with the financial support of Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science and Technology, Govt. of India, New Delhi. The aim of NRFC is to develop, deposit, maintain and distribute authenticated fish cell lines on request. It is a designated repository by the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India, under sub-section (1) of Section 39 of the Biological Diversity Act, 2002 in the Fish Genetic Resources category. It has state-of-the-art facilities for cell-transfection, automated cell-counting, DNA sequencing capabilities etc. Today, NRFC has the world’s largest collection of fish cell lines with 81 cell line accessions developed from 16 tissues of 39 fish species (29 freshwater, 3 brackish-water and 7 marine species) belonging to 32 genera, 16 families and 8 orders. The Bureau has deposited 44 of these cell lines, while 19 cell lines is being contributed by C. Abdul Hakeem College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu; 12 by ICAR-CMFRI, Kochi, Kerala; 4 by FCRI, Tamil Nadu, and 2 by ICAR- DCFR, Bhimtal, Uttarakhand. Many of the cell lines are derived from the fin tissue (Table 1). The NRFC has a detailed strategy to develop, deposit, sub-culture, authenticate and distribute cell lines on demand. Researchers developing fish cell line may also submit their cell line(s) to NRFC for effective maintenance and distribution to other researchers/ academicians for research and development works. Table 1.