 of pods/plant (10 random plants) (vi) Seeds/pod (3 pods—top, middle and bottom shall form the randomly selected 10 plants) (vii) Resistance to pods-shattering (viii) Plant stand (ix) Plant type (x) 100-seed weight (g) (xi) Seed colour and shape (xii) Hilum colour of seed (xiii) Seed quality aspects: Oil content, fatty acid profile and protein quality (xiv) Reaction to diseases and pests (xv) Tolerance to abiotic stresses 4. Characters/variables on which data should be generated in the AVT- II (i) Observations on all characters as recorded in the AVT-I (ii) Agronomical parameters (iii) Response to seed rate, plant population, irrigation and fertilizer levels (iv) Physiological parameters wherever feasible 5. Plot size, spacing and number of replications a. Initial Varietal Trial Plot size 3 rows of 3 m length Replications 3 Spacing 30 cm × 5 cm (Central and South Zones); 45 cm × 5 cm in the rest of the zones b. Advanced Varietal Trial-I Plot size 8 rows of 5 m length Replications 4 Spacing 30 cm × 5 cm (Central and South Zones); 45 cm × 5 cm in the rest of the zones c. Advanced Varietal Trial-II Plot size 12 rows of 5 m length Replications 4 Spacing 30 cm × 5 cm (Central and South Zones); 45 cm × 5 cm in the rest of the zones 50 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS 6. Agroclimatic zones There are following five agroclimatic zones. (i) Northern Hills Zone: Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand (ii) Northern Plains Zone: Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and north- eastern plains of Uttar Pradesh, west Bihar (iii) Central Zone: Madhya Pradesh, Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, northern and western parts of Maharashtra and Odisha (iv) Southern Zone: Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Kerala and southern parts of Maharashtra (v) North-Eastern Zone: Asom, West Bengal, Bihar, Meghalaya, south- eastern parts of Madhya Pradesh and Odisha 7. Description of morphological features DUS testing guidelines notified by the PPV&FRA may be followed. Minimum traits required may be decided by the workshop. 8. Others Information on the available DNA markers (based on the availability) also needs to be recorded. Rapeseed and Mustard 1. Important characters on which data should be recorded A. Yield (i) Seed yield (kg/ha) (ii) Oil yield (kg/ha) B. Yield components (i) No. of primary branches/plant (ii) No. of secondary branches/plant (iii) No. of siliquae on the main shoot (iv) Siliqua length (cm) (v) No. of seeds/siliqua (vi) 1,000-seed weight (g) (vii) Oil content (%) C. Agronomic features (i) Plant height (cm) (ii) Point to first branch (cm) (iii) Days to 50% flowering (iv) Days to maturity (v) Plant stand D. Physiological characteristics (i) Plant type: Spreading/compact/erect 51 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS (ii) Abiotic stresses: Heat (seedling and terminal), frost, soil moisture, salinity E. Major and important minor diseases and insect-pests a.