 This is applied in the field which act as an excellent tonic to the field and tones the soil in terms of supply of the nutrients and also substrate (organic C compounds) for the earth worms and microbes. For pest control, the natural farmer uses various asthras viz., agniastrha, neemasthra, brahmasthra and dashaparnikasthra apart from using fermented buttermilk and coconut milk for disease management. The farmer is also practicing mulching and crop residue management for improved soil health. The yield decline due to adopting natural farming is only 2 to 3 bags per acre in case of rice, but the grains fetch bonus price. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 23 Area Major Intervention Objective contribution Farmer Producer Organisation Marine Fisheries FPO Samyuktha fisheries Producer Company, Etimandipallepallu village, Kruttivennu mandal, Krishna district has 425 member farmers from 30 villages, which was registered in September, 2015, through NABARD’s support and SNEHA, local NGO as facilitator. The FPO established 3 collection centers, an ice factory and also placed cooling boxes with a weighing machine in each of the collection centre. They deal with a wide range of marine products like fish, prawn and crabs. The NGO organized awareness and exposure visits to most of the member farmer’s to fish markets at Narsapur, Chennai and Bhimavaram. This has enabled farmers to realize the advantages of coming together collectively to bargain higher prices in the markets as they were cheated by the intermediaries in their villages who gave only 40-50% of prices that they in turn earned in these markets. Farmer Producer Organisation Banana FPO Sri Vigneshwara Banana FPO formally registered as a company in July 2015 with 190 active members. Farmers from 30 surrounding villages encompassing 5 mandals converge to sell their banana fruit bunches on every Monday and Thursday during the week. The turnover of the FPO was 9.6 million last year earning a profit of Rs 0.55 million by charging 6% levy on banana sales. A member farmer, Shri S Nagireddy says, “If I sell banana bunch to local trader at the farm gate, I used to get Rs 150 per bunch, here in FPO, I get Rs 325 per bunch and is more than double the previous amount. Also, being a part of the FPO fetched me 100% more”. The abuse of intermediaries in differential pricing has dramatically reduced for farmers participating in this FPO where grading and pricing were held with transparency. This is attracting new banana farmers from other places. Krishna Zone: District: Guntur (paddy, maize, sorghum, black gram, green gram, pigeon pea, ground nut, chickpea, and sesame) State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 24 Area Major Intervention Objective contribution Livelihood Diversification stability of income Vermicomposting Srinivasa Rao resident of Gorantla village, Guntur Rural, Andhra Pradesh started vermicompost unit with an annual production capacity of 300 T.