 Field evaluation of rice germplasm lines VTG 805 (Highly susceptible genotype) (left), VTG 13 (Resistant) and VTG 14 (susceptible) (middle) and VTG 1327-2 (Resistant) (right) Powdery mildew resistant tomato genotype identified: In order to find out resistant genotypes for the most devastating disease of greenhouse tomato, i.e. powdery mildew (Oidium neolycopersici), existing set of tomato germplasm were screened using whole plant resistance method (spore suspension of O. neolycopersici 2×104 conidia/ml); VTG 13 and one advance line VTG 1327-2 showed 0 powdery mildew incidence on 0-3 scale. Microbial genetic resources: The NAIMCC (National Agriculturally Important Microbial Culture Collection) is a repository of more than 6,000 accessioned microbial strains representing actinomycetes, bacteria, fungi and cyanobacteria groups of agricultural importance. During this period around GENETIC RESOURCES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 24 alternanace was shown by Red Delicious and Red Fuji with ABI values of 0.71 and 0.83, respectively. In pears, among 20 European pear cultivars evaluated, maximum fruit weight (200.1 g) and fruit diameter (75.3 mm) were recorded in cultivar King Pear, whereas maximum fruit length (102.0 mm) was recorded in cultivar Santya Braskaya. Among Asian pear cultivars, Chinese sand pear produced fruits with maximum weight (175.6 g), length (58.9 mm) and diameter (70.2 mm). In pomegranate, hardwood cuttings (HWC) of two varieties Kabul Kandhari and Kandhari Seedless from YSPUHF, Solan, whereas HWC of three-way cross hybrid (Ganesh × Nana) × Daru were collected. Currently, 375 pomegranate collections have been maintained. Important breeding material consisting of hybrids, mutant population (M1 generation) of Ganesh and Bhagwa, selected advanced lines with desirable characteristics were also conserved in the field gene- bank. Vegetables: A total of 66 breeding materials and parental lines of hybrids consisting of 23 in okra, 2 in tomato, one in pointed gourd, 9 in radish, 16 in carrot, 4 in bathua, 10 in French bean and one in ridge gourd were assigned IC numbers. Seventeen varieties/hybrids of vegetables, viz. Kashi Ageti in pea; Kashi Vardaan in okra; Kashi Surkh, Kashi Anmol, Kashi Gaurav in chilli; Kashi Sinduri in paprika; Kashi Harit in pumpkin; Kashi Madhu in muskmelon; Kashi Vishesh, Kashi Amrit, Kashi Anupam, Kashi Hemant and Kashi Sharad in tomato; Kashi Sandesh and Kashi Taru in brinjal and Kashi Bahar and Kashi Ganga in bottle gourd were registered. Plantation crops: In cashew, for efficient conservation and utilization of germplasm, core collection representing the spectrum of diversity present in base collection was identified using a relatively new and efficient technique ‘Advanced M strategy with Heuristic Approach’ to retain maximum diversity with minimum number of accessions. The base collection of 478 accessions with 68 characters was subjected to analysis resulting in core collection of 49 accessions.