 Moreover RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 156 this technology is suitable only in the areas near to river course. The cost of boulders increases if transported higher upland area located at distance from road head and river course. Therefore, present poly-cement tank can be constructed anywhere in upland areas by collecting sand and gravels/stones from the area and only cement can be transported from road head. So, these tanks are more economical than boulder tanks and poly-cement tanks is very easy to construct at any site of hills. These tanks were found very useful for irrigation and fish cultivation. These tanks are able to tolerate earthquake tremors, temperature stresses and damage by physical factors. These are cost effective with longer life (more than 40 years) than poly lined or cement tanks. The tanks life estimated is based on tanks performance from last 10 years at ICAR-VPKAS Almora farm and farmers field. These tanks are working properly without damage from last ten years. The block covered lined tank is more economical than the polyline tank, as silpaulin lined tanks mostly get damaged every five years and LDPE lined in 3 years. Therefore, one need to repair and line tank eight time with silpaulin and 12 times with LDPE in 40 years, which is expected life of poly-cement tank. Therefore, 100 m3 LDPE tank will require ` 2.32 lakh and silpaulin tank ` 2.40 lakh both are almost same and three times more than poly-cement tank. Vermi-composting and Vermi-wash system in farmers field under tree sheds The multiple water use model which include 100 m3 water tanks for fish farming, irrigation, poultry farming, cattle rearing, fruit (kiwi), vegetables and Azolla cultivation. The estimated gross returns of ` 6 lakh from 4,000 m2 land by adopting above package. Farmers earned (gross income) around ` 1 to 1.5 lakh through fish, vegetables and kiwi cultivation by constructing tanks. The kiwi cultivation in 1,000 m2 and vermicomposting in 100 m2 area will increase income of farmer manifolds and give a stabilized production. The livelihood security can be insured by constructing tank and by adopting multiple water use model. North East Himalayas Screening cultivated brinjal and wild relatives for resistance against Fusarium wilt: The pathogen Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. melongenae (Fom) causing fusarium wilt of brinjal is highly diverse and the identification of new sources of resistance for the incorporation of multiple and complementary resistance genes in the same cultivar is the best strategy for durable and stable resistance. The study was conducted to screen different accessions of cultivated eggplant (Solanum melongena) and its wild relative’s crops RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 157 (WRC) for resistance against the virulent strain, Fom- Megh 1 isolated from Meghalaya. Forty-eight genotypes were used for screening the resistant genotypes during 2018–2019.