 The concept of creating a barrier between the commodity and grain with a concept of deoxygenation inside storage structure to reduce the aerobic condition. This reduction in O2 concentration, elevate the CO2 which affect the metabolic activity of the insects, ultimately leading to death. In India, few such hermetic bags are developed recently and are available in Indian markets, viz., Save Grain Bags®, Grain Pro®, Ecotact bags®, Super Grain Bags® and others. • Inert dusts like diatomaceous earth have proved effective against stored-grain insect pests. • Plant derivatives or botanicals are one more option. These acts like repellents, antifeedants, toxicants, chemosterilants, growth regulators, etc. because of the active ingredients present in them. There are variety of herbal tablets available in market with these active ingredients. • Essential oils extracted from different plant-based groups are also effective. Plant families like Meliaceae, Myrtaceae, Apiaceae, Lamiaceae, Lauraceae, Poaceae, Pinaceae, etc. are reported to contain insecticidal secondary metabolites/ volatiles like terpenoids, alkaloids, phenolics, etc. The dosages range from 2g to 15g per kg of food grains. Impregnation of these essential oils are also being done in conventional storage bags and used in many storage studies across the world. • Physical trapping devices: Various traps including light traps are available in market for the warehouse usage. The UV traps are effective in mass trapping the adults of these beetles. However, they are non-selective and have safety limitations. • Entomopathogenic fungi like Beauveria bassiana, Metarhizium anisopliae and bacterium - Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) were also tested against stored- grain pests especially beetles. For the stored-grain moths, Bt was registered long back but commercial application has limitations. • Biotic agents like predators and parasitoids are also effective and sustainable options. Few of them are naturally available. However, the method has its own limitations of right-time and right quantity availability, regional adaptability, and their handling. • Semiochemicals like pheromones and allelochemicals are also available synthetically for Plodia and Tribolium. They can be used to mass trap the adults of these pests. • Chemical methods: There are ready references dealt with the chemical protectants used in grains and storage structures (NSPM-22, 11, 12, 15). Chemical insecticides are used in two ways i.e., prophylactic sprays and curative treatments. Prophylactic sprays are left with only one option for these days i.e., Deltamethrin. The dosage and recommended values are given in Table 2. For fumigation, presently, aluminium phosphide (ALP) is the molecule available for large scale fumigation to control stored produce pests effectively. Generally recommended @ 3 tablets per tonne of food grains (each tablet is 3g and can release 1g of phosphine gas).