 Tobacco leaf contains nicotine in different forms and it acts systemically on the insects, which proved harmful to many insect pests of different crops. The nicotine in tobacco and some compounds in cow urine showed synergistic effect on the mortality of the pest. The results are substantially superior to the control. The economics of the different treatments was calculated at two sites (Bhubneshwar and West Bengal). The chemical treatment gave higher net return (Rs 6,128-13,878) than ITK methods (Rs 4,059-6,511) for cucurbits. In lady's finger the highest net return was recorded by chemical control (Rs 8,215-9,385) than ITK (Rs 3,510- 7,779). The result on cowpea indicted higher net return in chemical control (Rs 4,470-5,731) than ITK methods (Rs 1,677- 3,413). Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS CONCLUSION The use of animal urine mixed with tobacco- soaked water was found effective in controlling major pests in lady's finger, cucurbits and cowpea. The economic return from ITK is also higher, but not more than from chemical control. □ Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser : 1416 Control of insect-pests by spraying starch, animal urine and dusting of cowdung ash in vegetables : The sticky nature of starch and uric acid of animal urine helps in killing the insects. Dusting of cowdung ash helps in controlling the biting and chewing types insects, especially aphids. Rice starch and animal urine are sprayed on vegetable plants. These traditional practices are adopted by 85% farmers in Kurchi village of Dhanbad district in Jharkhand. : Shri Sitaram Mahto, village Kurchi, block Govindpur, Dhanbad (Jharkhand) Location of use of the ITK Experimenters : Village Kurchi, block Govindpur, dist. Dhanbad (Jharkhand) : Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi Dr N. Kudada (Assistant Professor-cum-Junior Scientist, Department of Plant Pathology), Dr (Mrs) N. Bara (Scientist, Department of Extension Education), Dr Devendra Prasad (Head, Department of Entomology), Dr Ravindra Prasad (Head, Department of Entomology) and Dr R.P. Singh Ratan (Head, Department of Extension Education) OUAT, Bhubaneshwar (Orissa) Dr A.K. Das (Associate Professor, Department of Horticulture in College of Agriculture) Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidyalaya, Mohanpur, Nadia (West Bengal) Dr S.K. Mandal (Professor, Department of Entomology) METHODOLOGY Location: Experiments were conducted at Kharkotoli and Hisalpuri in Jharkand, OUAT Bhubneshwar, and Central Research Farm. BCKVV, W.B. The design was R.B.D. with 10 replications. There were three treatments, viz. T1, control, T2, spraying of animal urine mixed with starch, followed by dusting of cowdung ash (@ 500 litres of animal urine mixed with 5 litres rice starch followed by dusting of 40 kg cowdung ash/ha) and T3, application of monocrotophos @ 1 litre/ ha.