 Bio-security 56 measures in poultry farms. 5.6 ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY Unit 1: Cellular Basis of Animal Physiology Animal cell ultra-structure, composition and functions. Physio-chemical laws and membrane phenomena. Body fluid and its dynamics. Transport of through biological membranes. Unit 2: Blood and Circulation Composition of blood, structure & functioning of its constitutes. Blood coagulation and anticoagulants. Hemoglobin and its polymorphism. Anaemias. Reticulo-endothelial System. Body defense mechanism and immunogenesis. Electrophysiology of heart. Electro-cardiography – Principles and interpretation. Hemodynamics and concerned biophysical principles. Capillary fluid exchange and lymphatic circulation. Neural and humoral control of heart and blood vessels. Cardiac Output and vascular reflexes. Autoregulation mechanism in the heart Regional circulation – coronary, pulmonary, cerebral, muscle, kidney and skin, blood brain barrier. Circulatory shock and hypertension and cardiac failure. Unit 3: Respiration Mechanics of respiration. Neural and chemical control of respiration. Gaseous transport and exchange. Hypoxia. Physiology of hypo-barrism and high altitude. Work and exercise physiology. Unit 4: Excretion Modern concepts of urine formation. Control of renal circulation. Secretion and absorption in renal tubules. Regulation of acid-base balance by blood buffers, lungs and kidneys. Hormonal and renal regulation of body fluids and electrolyte balance. Physiology of micturition. Uremia and other renal disorders. Unit 5: Digestion Control of motility and secretion of alimentary canal. Gastric hormones and reflexes in the control of digestive functions. Control of rumen motility. Digestion in ruminant and monogastric animals. Absorption from rumen and the digestive tract. Manipulation of rumen microflora to enhance fibre digestion and microbial protein synthesis. Nitrogen recycling and rumen bypass mechanisms. Post- ruminal digestion. Physiology of rumen disorders. Unit 6: Muscle Physiology Muscle types and their intra-cellular contractile mechanisms. Electrophysiology of muscles. Neuromuscular junction. Excitation contraction coupling, its biochemical and ionic mechanisms. Molecular basis of muscle contraction. Rigor mortis. Unit 7: Nervous System General organization of nervous system. Neurone structure and function. Excitability and transmission of impulse in neuron and muscle. Junctional transmission. Neuro-transmitters. Reflex action. Initiation of impulses from sense organ/receptors. Functions of spinal cord, brain stem and cerebellum. Limbic system and cerebral cortex. Hypothalamus and its autonomic functions in endocrine and visceral regulation. Ascending and descending tracts. Cerebral cortex, its role in motor and sensory functions. Physiology of learning and memory. Physiology of pain. Special senses (hearing, vision, taste, smell etc.). Unit 8: Endocrinology Hormones. Hormone receptors.