 This will provide the appropriate and prime price of agricultural products to the farmers. H. All the State Mandies shall be linked with the E-platform of National Agriculture Market. I. To encourage the agricultural mechanization in the remote areas, 1000 “Agriculture Implement Custom Hiring Centres” will be established. J. In the situation of uncertainty of weather & natural calamities, at least 50% farmers would be brought under the cover of insurance for providing the security to farmers. K. Short-term loans being provided to farmers at zero per cent interest rate will be further expanded so as to promote the modernization of agriculture by providing the medium & long-term loans. L. Patta of more than 3 lacs ha area has been provided by the government to over 3.5 lacs forest inhabitants (Banvasis) of the state. For doubling the income of these forest inhabitants, they will be linked with improved agriculture along with horticulture, agro- forestry, animal husbandry and poultry farming so as to uplift the socio-economic status of the farmers. M. Forest-based industries would be established in addition to other sources of income. More than 54000 farmers will be benefited following lac cultivation and a target for doubling the production of lac will be achieved by the year, 2022. N. “Changi Rearing System” of tusur production will be promoted so as to raise the income of silk worm rearers. O. “Fruit & vegetable Route” will be developed keeping in view of horticulture development including green house/shade net, cold storage and pack house on cluster basis. In next five years, an additional area of 4.5 lac ha will be brought under horticultural crops. P. Required trainings & tools would be provided to farmers practicing “apiculture”. Q. “Cage Culture” will be developed in the water bodies/reservoirs for increasing the production and productivity of fisheries. For this, fishermen would be trained and subsidies shall also be made available to them. Small farmers will be sensitized for fish rearing in a part of their field by making farm ponds. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 106 R. Animal breed improvement work will be taken-up in campaign mode and new milk route shall be established. S. Animal shade & poultry shade will be constructed under MNREGA. The interest of cattle producer will be protected by extending the “Livestock Insurance Scheme”. T. While providing all possible helps and best of resources to its hardworking farmers in integrated manner from central & state governments, Chhattisgarh Government is committed in fulfilling the resolution of Hon’ble Prime Minister. SUCCESS STORIES 1. Establishment of Integrated Farming System (IFS) in farmers field: The farmers at present concentrate mainly on crop production which is subjected to a high degree of uncertainty in income and employment to the farmers. In this contest, it is imperative to evolve suitable strategy for augmenting the income of a farm.