 59 Unit 7: Immunoparasitology General principles of parasitic immunity and immune responses to helminths, protozoa, arthropods – The adaptive immune responses, evasion of immunity, classical antiparasite responses – concomitant immunity, premunition, spring-rise, self-cure, VLM, CLM, parasitic granuloma, nodule formation, Parasitic antigens relevant to immunity and diagnosis, their identification and purification-general protocols, immunomodulators and their use in immunopotentiation. Demonstration and characterisation. Development of live, attenuated, killed and new generation vaccines. Unit 8: Diagnostic Parasitology Laboratory diagnostic procedures for parasite identification and detection, coprodetection techniques, floatation/concentration, methods, direct microscopy, parasitic staining and special techniques used in parasite identification. Culture and identification of nematode larvae, cercaria, identification of metacestodes and animal infestation, methods for parasite isolation. Diagnostic procedures for manage and bot infestations. General immunodiagnostic assays (ELISA, IFAT, Dot- ELISA, EITB). Principles of validation of diagnostic assays, and OIE recommendations for diagnosis and knowledge of referral laboratory of O.I.E. and molecular techniques used in parasite epidemiology and diagnosis. 6.2 VETERINARY PUBLIC HEALTH Unit 1: Veterinary Public Health Definitions, concept of Public Health, Intersectoral approach to Human Health, Veterinary Medicine, Veterinary Public Health, Human health goals, veterinarians participation in public health and justifications, Veterinary Public Health Unit – its dimensions and functions, National and International organizations related with Public and Veterinary Public Health, Rural health, Role of Public Health Veterinarians in Public Health, Health Delivery System. Unit 2: Milk Hygiene Definitions, Dairy Industry and milk hygiene in India and other countries, Microbiology, of milk and milk products, microbial spoilage of milk and its products, Bacteriophage, Contamination of milk and its products, Public health aspects of residues: agricultural chemicals, antibiotics and drugs, toxic metals, plant toxins, mycotoxins and adulterants, Milk borne diseases, Milk hygiene, Hygienic aspects of production of milk and processing and manufacture of milk products, Clean milk production, Prevention of contamination by sanitation at dairy farm, collection centers, milk processing and manufacturing plants. Pasteurization, Sterilization, Standards. Quality control tests applied to milk and milk products. Unit 3: Meat Hygiene Definitions, Meat industry and meat hygiene in India and other countries. Raising meat food animals and birds, their trade and transport. Hygienic aspects of slaughter, bleeding, dressing and processing and manufacture of carcass meat and meat products. Rigor mortis, Emergency and causality slaughter. Abattoir/ Meat plant Sanitation, Microbiology of meat and their products.