 As per National Account Statistics 2019, the value of output from livestock sector was Rs10.44 lakh crores at current prices during 2017-18, which was 33.25% of the value of output from agricultural and allied sector. Livestock, particularly in India is closely interwoven with crop farming. It works as safety valve against income shocks during the subsistence oriented crop farming and natural calamities. Sector generates employment to 164.4 lakh workers as per usual status in the animal husbandry activities. India continues to be the largest producer of milk in the world since 1998. As per 20th livestock census 2019, goat population in the country has increased from 135.17 to 148.88 million between 2012 and 2019. India ranks first in the world for goat milk production, and second in goat meat and skin production. The growth rate in goat population was about 1.08 % during 2012 to 2019 in spite of higher slaughter rate and annual mortality with an increase in output of goat meat, milk and hide. Annually, goat and its products contribute Rs.38,590 crores to the national economy, which accounts for about 9% to the total value of output (at current prices) from livestock sector in 2010-11. More than 75% goats are reared by the marginal and landless households having less than 2.0 ha of land. It is the main source of income to farmers particularly of the arid and semi-arid regions in the country, where crop failure is the recurring phenomenon. Sheep and goats are basically reared to meet the demand for meat, wool, hides, milk, etc. Globally the demand for livestock products, particularly for chevon and mutton is on rise, due to the increase in per capita income in the developing countries. Small ruminant sector despite its considerable contribution to livestock economy and potential to enhance household’s income of millions of marginal and small farmers, remained underinvested and could not receive financial and institutional support. Its untapped potential and probable economic gains due to technological and marketing intervention will pave ways to country’s sustainable goat production and also realize Gandhiji’s dream of self-reliant rural India. 40 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 2. Sustainable Goat Production: Gandhiji’s Vision Mahatma Gandhi and his vision to create self-sustain and prosperous rural India is still relevant in the twenty first century. Creation of sustainable agriculture, judicious use of local resources strengthen rural economy and overall prosperity of farmers’ life are the key attributes of his vision. The Gandhi’s economic models are also focused on well-beings of human beings. Mahatma’s perception “The soul of India lives in its villages” holds very true in the present context since 70% population resides in more than seven and half lakhs of villages.