 IRRI has been working in India under the broad framework in collaboration with a wide range of NARES institutions involved in agricultural research and development. ICAR is the nodal point for IRRI in India, and IRRI keeps ICAR informed for all its collaborative activities in India. International Rice Research Institute ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 78 2.i. Overall contributions to Indian agriculture India has been actively involved in IRRI’s priority setting, strategic planning, scientific advising, and implementation of research in the region. Senior Indian scientists and government officials have served almost continuously on IRRI’s Board of Trustees since its creation. Indian scientists at IRRI have contributed significantly to IRRI’s success in using cutting-edge science to help bring food security, economic growth, and environmental protection to the world through their dedicated research and administrative efforts. Dr M.S. Swaminathan, the first World Food Prize Laureate in 1987, served as IRRI’s fourth director general during 1982-88. Dr G.S. Khush, a rice breeder and 1996 World Food Prize Laureate worked for 34 years at IRRI and made most outstanding countless contributions to keep the Green Revolution in rice production on right path. Over the years, more than 50 Indians have distinguishingly served – or are serving – IRRI as globally recruited scientists and 17 have been decision makers as members of the Board of Trustees. Since 1964, several Indian scholars have studied at IRRI to earn advance degrees or participate in other educational programs. Numerous senior and emerging Indian rice scientists and agricultural policy specialists are IRRI alumni and there is an enormous reservoir of goodwill in India towards IRRI. The synergy of partnership resulted in development of high yielding rice varieties, rice varieties tolerant to biotic stresses suited to various rice environments, hybrid rice varieties bred through government and private sector programs, improved crop and nutrient management practices including conservation agriculture in rice-wheat systems, and improved postharvest technologies for improved sustainability and productivity. The free exchange of genetic material at both the national and international levels through IRRI’s International Network of Genetic Evaluation of Rice or INGER allowed testing and breeding under different rice ecologies and agro-climatic regions. Key achievements emanated out of India-IRRI collaboration include, yy Conservation and exchange of rice germplasm: Out of 1,27,000 rice germplasm at IRRI’s gene bank more than 17,000 are from India. Many of these have contributed immensely as door to rice breeding programs, such as Pokkali for salinity tolerance, N22 for drought and heat tolerance, FR13A for submergence tolerance, and Oryza nivara for resistance to grassy stunt virus.