 The infrastructure and facilities being provided by the exhibitor have to be defined and considered by the committee. 10. Rates quoted for rental charges of space should be reasonable and as per prevailing norms. 11. Sufficiency of funds for the particular exhibition. 12. Contract for designing the pavilion, developing the posters, display materials, exhibits, and other related expenditure will be incurred after following the provisions of GFR and orders/guidelines issued by ICAR/GoI from time to time. 13. Events incurring expenditure of 10.0 lakhs or more will be referred to the Dept of expenditure for seeking approval of the Secretary (Expenditure) as per MoF OM. dated 31 May 2010. 14. Expected outcome of participation must be considered in terms of value addition to our efforts related to showcasing and improvement in the visibility and image building of ICAR. GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 38 Annexure – VIII CHECK LIST (PARTICIPATION OF COUNCIL IN EXHIBITIONS) Title of the Exhibition Regional/National/International Date and venue Address of Organiser with contact number and email id Supported by Referred by any Ministry/Govt agency etc. Other Details (To be filled in by the organiser) S No Details Remarks 1 Does the theme have a distinct relevance to the ICAR mandate? 2 Who will inaugurate the exhibition? 3 Are date and venue suitable and convenient, any other event being held during the same period? 4 What is the professional standing and track record of the proposing body/organizer? 5 Last 3 years’ annual turnover (please attach supporting document) 6 Has the proposing body organized any such event in the past? If yes, then no. of events organized 7 List of participating agencies in each event 8 What type of infrastructure for display will be provided by organizer? 9 Undertaking that the organising agency/NGO is not blacklisted by Central/State Govt. agencies is submitted or not? GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 39 S No Details Remarks For Office use only 10 Total estimated area for display/ no. of stalls to be booked and likely expenditure? 11 Is rate quoted by body justified in relation to the brand value, venue, infrastructure and facilities offered? 12 If there is any special discount for ICAR or Government agencies? 13 Suggested area for display space 14 If sufficient fund is available? 15 Expected outcome through participation of Council in the exhibition and does it aim at tackling national, regional or global issues? Approval/Decision of the committee* (To be signed by members and Chairman of the committee) yy Column 10-15 are for office use and not to be filled up by the organizer yy All the applications which are complete will be processed on file by the PR Unit of ICAR. yy Event/exhibition which do not satisfy the conditions or are incomplete will not be considered. yy A list of such applications will however, be put up to the Committee for information.