 Breeding programs have provided new cultivars selected for their short chilling requirements and tolerance to high temperature. One of the most successful cultivars is ‘Anna’ apple, developed by A. Stein in Israel. This is now extensively grown in areas with limited chilling. The introduction and the selection of superior types have remained major research activities at various institutes, as a result of which cultivars like Sharbati peach, Titron and Kala Amritsari plum, Pathernakh, LeConte and Baghugosha pears became commercially popular in some parts of the subtropical India. Constraints and Strategies Inspite of suitable agroclimatic conditions and large potential for growing temperate fruits in this region, it has not been exploited and still it remains in a neglected state and no organized industry exists due to the following constraints like lack of suitable planting material, lack of skilled labour, lack of trained personnel, lack of Castle’; Persimmon: ‘Daidai Maroo’; Cherries: ‘Black Heart’. High-density orcharding of apple, kiwi, persimmon Apple, kiwi and persimmon are one of the potential crops to grow under high density in NE region. These crops are very potential for the region, due ideal climatic conditions. In apple, Gala varieties grafted on clonal rootstocks have been proved very profitable in Arunachal Pradesh. Likewise, the kiwi and persimmon are another fruit crops are yielding significantly higher yield of quality fruits as compared to other regions of the country. Low chilling cultivars suitable for subtropical Conditions Selection of cultivars of the temperate fruits to be grown under subtropical climate is one of the key Indian Horticulture 34 demonstration orchards, language barrier, non-existence of suitable transport facilities, non-adoption of suitable plant protection measures, non-existence of suitable marketing agency for the produce, non-adoption of suitable agro- techniques. Future scope There are several success stories written that these could be cultivated under subtropical climate as in Venezuela, Israel, Vietnam, Australia and Mexico. Therefore, these can also be repeated in Indian conditions. A collaborative effort among researchers, extension workers and development department could lead to make a breakthrough for their commercialization. This requires a systematic approach includes, identifications of zones according to chilling accumulation and high summer temperature, selection of appropriate fruit crop, selection Dorsett Golden Apple Anna Apple Tropic Sweet Apple Sunbest nectarine Sunmist necatine Suncoat nectarine Florda Prince Peach Earli Grande Babcock Peach of appropriate cultivar/ hybrid, awareness campaign by extension workers, and financial support by the financial institutions including public v/s private. Recent attempts have led to the development of new cultivars of apple, peaches, and nectarines. These cultivars can be grown successfully under subtropical conditions.