 Dairy products and Detections Kits: DNA-based method for differentiation of cow, buffalo, sheep, processes goat and camel milk; strip based test for detection of maltodextrin in milk; spore-based kit for detection of antibiotic residues in milk at dairy farm; paper strip assay for rapid detection of pesticide residues, and mastitis detection card test kit. Dairy Products: Arjuna herbal ghee; milk protein enriched iron fortified bajra biscuit; bajra lassi; and fast acidifying yoghurt culture for greek style yoghurt. Fish-based products and Dot Elisa Kit; Spot Agglutination Kit; Indian white shrimp (Penaeus indicus); processes Antihypercholesterolemic extract (CadalminTM Ace) from seaweeds; Design and construction of commercial fishing vessels. Food processing and Fruit/Milk/Vegetable Products: Anthocyanin extraction from black carrot; coconut value addition chips; guava squash; fresh and hygienic kalparasa and natural coconut sugar; jaljeera drink; RTS beverage from amla, guava and kokum; and whey mango, onion paste making; and dried onion flakes and powder. Animal/ Fish: Production of fish kure - extruded snack product from fish; low fat meat emulsion and process; production of chitin and chitosan. Plant-protection Entomopathogenic nematode-based galleria cadaver technology for insect- measures pest management; nano-matrix for delivery of pheromone for the management of red palm weevil and rhinoceros beetle; para-pheromone trap; and VL- white grub beetle trap-1. Textile and jute products Design and manufacturing of pre-cleaner, double roller gin, baling presses and and processes feeding systems; design and machinery for automatic cotton ginning plant; chipping of cotton stalks for value addition; automatic electronic fibre bundle strength tester for multiple fibre; digital fineness meter for multiple fibres; digital colour range indicator, and thermal insulation value tester. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 129 Agri-business incubation This initiative addresses the much-needed requirements of business incubation for converting agriculture technologies into an attractive commercial proposition. Accordingly, 25 Agri-Business Incubation (ABI) centers have been supported/ established in various institutes. These ABIs undertook different activities to facilitate the business environment in the ICAR institutes, which include, Agri-entrepreneurs/ Incubators admitted for incubation (173); Agri- entrepreneurs/Incubators graduated (56); New products/ technologies incubated (54); Entrepreneur Development Programme organized (60); and Agri-business Development/Awareness Programmes Organized (63).