 Did you receive any complaint about segregation from indenters other than MAHABEEJ? Did you visit the plots ofother indenters? There were no complaints from others. 61. Do you know Dr Manssor and Dr Surendra? Yes Sir, We know both ofthem, who are working in the university. 62. Do they have any clash of interest with you? We do not have any dash ofinterest with them and We have never come doser to them so far. 63. Once again, did you carry out any test on the presence or absence of cry lAc and MaN 531 and BNLA 60I; and if not why? Test for crylAc expression was carried out from To to Ts generation through ELISA and Bt Strip test. Test for presence or absence of Mon 531 was carried out from 2009 after knowing about the contamination. - - - - - SdI- (l.S KATAGERI) SdI- (B.M.KHADI) SdI- (S.S UDlKERI) SdI- (H.M.VAMADEVAIAH) REPLY TO THE QUESTIONS ASKED BY ENQUIRY COMMITTEE ON BNBt Dr.S.S.PatH, ARS, Dharwad Q 1) When Dr Katageri was away during 2005-06, were you Head of the Cotton Research Station? We understand that the charge of the development of 'BN Bt' programme was given to you? Ans: Yes, I was Head of the Research station, Dharward during 2005-08. As Head of the Research station, I facilitated Dr.Katageri to get relieved on time and proceed for his training abroad during 200S.The responsibilities of different activities of Dr. Katageri were allotted to different scientists as follows: a) Breeding material and TMC projects- Dr. S. S. Patil, Principal Scientist and Head, ARS, Dharwad b) Laboratory activities- Dr. RM. Vanadevaiah, Biochemist, AICCIP, ARS, Dharwad c) Bt. Cotton activities- Dr. Manjula S. Maralappanavar, Asst Cytogeneticist, ARS, Dharwad The highly specialized and advanced programme of Bt cotton being developed by Dr.Katageri and his team maintained as a confidential research. The details of the programme and experiments were not shown to us. Hence as desired by Dr.Katageri the charge of his Bt. Cotton research programme was given to Dr.Manjula on paper only, while all the detailed handling of the material was done by his team members, Mis. Anita Bandari, Research Associate and Mr.Basavraj Tegginhalli who was managing his programme. Q 2) As Head of Cotton Research station after Dr Khadi left VAS, DharwlJrl, what were your duties in 2005-06? Ans: As Head my duties were to execute different developmental programme of . the station and to provide required support to all the scientists and enable them to carry out their research programme. Q 3) Did you visit the research plot having material on BN Bt development? Ans: No, Before Dr. Katageri left, much of the flowering was over and Dr,Katageri never took me to field after my taking charge as Head and hence I had not seen the material before he left. As mentioned earlier during his training period Dr.Manjula and I gave support to his team in the form of handling labor bills and management. As desired by Dr.