 Unit 6: Fishery Engineering Selection of site for fish processing plant, layout and design- Canning plant, fish meal plant, surimi plant, freezing plant; Ideal requirements for construction of cold storage; Different types of cold storage; Seafood waste management; Refrigeration engineering-fundamental principles of refrigeration, refrigeration cycle; Refrigerants definition, type of refrigerant and their properties; types of condensers, type of boilers, type of evaporators; Machinery for handling and processing fish- Deboner, filleting machine, freshness analysers. 103 Unit 7: Economics and Marketing Fisheries enterprise management; Trends of domestic and export marketing of fish and fishery products, modern marketing methods and channels – supply chain management, cold chain facilities and infrastructure; Value-addition; Institutional support for fish harvest and post- harvest practices. 11.4 FISH NUTRITION Unit 1. Principles of Fish Nutrition Nutrients, sources, structure, classification, bio-synthesis. Metabolism of proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, nucleic acids, vitamins and minerals. Essential aminoacids, functions and deficiency symptoms, Vitamins and minerals, their role in fish nutrition, deficiency symptoms, Vitamin and mineral requirements in herbivores, carnivores, major fresh water, marine and brackishwater cultured species. Metabolic pathways of proteins, lipids and carbohydrates, Sparing action, P:E ratio, Assessing nutritional requirements of larvae, fingerlings, young fish, growout, fattening, reproductive energy needs, basic fish bioenergetics, energy portioning, energy budget. Unit 2. Nutritional Physiology Morphology, anatomy and physiology of the digestive systems of various types of fish such as herbivores, planktivores, omnivores, carnivores, detritivores, mixed diet. Nutrient digestion and digestive processes. Control and regulation of digestion. Factors affecting feed intake, digestion, absorption, assimilation. Microbial digestion; Digestibility and factors affecting. Digestive enzymes in fish; Gastric, pancreatic and intestinal secretions and role of microorganisms in digestion. Transport of nutrients in the body, storage, conversion and utilization. Role of liver and muscles in fat and glycogen storage and release. Digestive hormones, nutrient regulation of endocrine functions, role of nutrition in reproduction, transport and use of fat and protein for reproductive purposes. Unit 3. Feed Formulation, Feed Technology and Feeding Management Principles of feed formulation, feed ingredients, international coding of feed ingredients, evaluation of ingredient quality, conventional unconventional and novel ingredients, feed additives and feed binders, anti-nutritional factors and their prevention; Methods of feed formulation, feed processing units and processes, various feed types such as moist, semi-moist, dry, crumble, pellet, sinking, slow sinking, floating, microbound, microencapsulated, micro-coated, high energy.