 The ground material is fed to the expeller, which facilitates easy expelling of oilseeds that results in less number of passes required for oil extraction in a mechanical expeller. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 140 Technology for Producing Corrugated Roofing Panel from Crop Residues Fibre board and roofing panels have been prepared at JNKVV, Jabalpur from soybean straw with phenol formaldehyde (PF) resin in the concentration range of 10-12%. Cement bonded soybean boards and corrugated roofing sheets were made and tested for various physical parameters, viz. water absorption, mass density, tensile and compressive strength etc. Cement-bonded soybean straw particle boards in the ratio of 12:88 have shown good mechanical properties and fire resistance. Corrugated cement-bonded straw sheets have shown good prospect as a roofing substitute to G I sheets and asbestos sheets. Test specimen of cement-bonded corrugated sheets and tiles have also been developed. Mechanical Seed Extractor for Pomegranate A power-operated mechanical seed (arils) extractor for pomegranate has been developed at MPKV, Rahuri. The machine consists of main frame (made of mild steel), shaft with knife, concave, feeding chute and power transmission. Fruits are fed one by one through the feeding chute and are cut into pieces by the knives fitted on the shaft rotating at 300 rpm. The knives are mounted on the shaft 50 mm apart at 90°. The seed separation efficiency of the machine was observed to be 96%. The capacity of the machine varies between 140 and 160 kg/hr of pomegranate. Seeds separated by the machine have 97% purity. Preservation studies revealed that juice could be stored up to 270 days at 5±1°C after pasteurization with 100 ppm KMS as preservative. Juice can also be stored up to 120 days at room temperature. The rind of pomegranate has been dried at 80°C temperature for 5 hr to obtain powder. Hammer mill with 100-mesh sieve gave fine powder. The pomegranate seeds are dehydrated to prepare anardana. Technology for Smoking of Buffalo Meat Process for smoking of buffalo meat and preparation of value-added products have been standardized at AMU, Aligarh. The curing solution contained salt, sugar and sodium nitrate while the anti-oxidant used were sodium ascorbate (500 PPM) and sodium hexa meta phosphate (SHMP). The meat samples were stored at 0°C and 5°C temperature in LDPE/HDPE/PP bags and aluminium-foil. Smoking for 8 hr at temperature ranging between 50 and 60°C caused significant increase in pH of raw meat, which increased up to 6.25 (initial value 5.85). It also improved the colour, texture, and odour with respective score values of 7.33, 7.67 and 7.33 and caused reduction in microbial population. The shelf-life of smoked meat samples packed in LDPE bags was 46 days at 5°C storage temperature.