 The increase in productivity is due to introduction of short-duration dwarf high yielding hybrids which are especially well adopted in the state of Maharashtra. The hybrids played a key role in pushing up productivity and production in kharif sorghum. Among the hybrids, the role played by CSH 1, CSH 5, CSH 6, CSH 9, CSH 14 and CSH 16 needs a special mention. While CSH 5 and CSH 6 had a yield potential of 3400 kg/ha, this was raised to 4000 kg/ha in CSH 9. It is now further advanced to more than 4100 kg/ha in CSH 16, CSH 25, CSH 35 and CSH 41 with distinctly superior quality grain and fodder yield. High yielding varieties, CSV 1 to CSV 41 at central level and many more at state level were released. Though there was impressive growth in terms of availability of highly productive cultivars, the area and production have drastically gone down because of lack of demand for the grain. Opportunities for kharif sorghum: The utilization of kharif sorghum grain as a raw material in various industries is increasing, given the limited prospects of kharif sorghum for human consumption. The major thrust is to create demand of kharif grain for the nonfood sector, CSV 27-Dual purpose variety CSH 41-Medium maturing hybrid CSH 30-Early maturing hybrid CSV 41-Dual purpose variety Indian Farming 25 January 2023 particularly for feed, biofuel, starch and beverage industries. Molded kharif grain, which fetches lower market value, is a cheap raw material for production of potable or industrial alcohol. Sorghum is the second- best grain after barley for malting. The main industries currently using sorghum in India are the poultry feed (2.0 milliom tonnes (MT) annually), animal feed (0.60 MT) and alcohol distilleries (about 0.49 MT). Sorghum is used when maize is in short supply and priced up to 20% higher than sorghum. The emerging role of kharif grain as feed in the domestic and international circuits is a viable opportunity that needs to be harnessed. The genetic potential of this crop to provide cultivars with good malting quality, competitive starch production and useful source of beta glucan may also receive higher recognition. There is hardly any other single dryland cereal crop which is endowed with so many desirable traits and untapped utilities. Industrial linkages for expansion, marketing and commercialization by brand promotion of sorghum products will secure a stable and profitable market for sorghum. Major constraints for kharif sorghum production • Decline in area of cultivation due to reduced demand for food. • Development of high yielding cultivars with early maturity resulted in coincidence of grain development and maturity with late rains during certain years resulting in poor quality molded grains. • Kharif grain is not as remunerative as that of rabi because the seed is not round and lustrous.