 The leaf rot affected coconut palms which received Bacillus coagulans culture in the leaf axil showed significant improvement. The newly emerging spindle leaves were completely free from disease in most of the treated palms. Drought tolerant palms had higher net photosynthetic rates, instantaneous water-use efficiency, apart from having more number of leaves in crown, number of bunches and nuts/bunch compared to other palms. The protocols for AFLP, DAF and microsatellite of coconut DNA for tagging resistance for root (wilt) disease were standardized. ARECANUT AND COCOA Twelve distinct accessions of arecanut were added to the germplasm pool making the total strength to 140. Nine cocoa exotic accessions collected were added to the germplasm at Vittal. In young arecanut palms a saving of 50% NPK fertilizers was realized through fertigation. In high-density multispecies cropping systems, 7 tonnes of organic matter could be recycled within the system. OIL PALM A mini hand-pressed oil extraction machine has been designed and fabricated for extracting the oil at the laboratory scale. Three isolates of Ganoderma lucidium were collected from basal stem rot disease-affected coconut palms from Coimbatore, Thambikottai and Vepankulam in Tamil nadu. All the three isolates produced white mycelia and brown spores in PDA media but spores turned blackish at later stage in Vepankulam isolate. Oil palm and coconut stem as well as root tissues were inoculated to l The Bioinformatics centre has com- piled coconut literature on biotechnol- ogy in full text form in CD-ROM. l The Snow Ball Tender Nut machine was modified for easy operation, low- cost and easy for transportation. l Coconut chips could be stored in vacuum packaging in aluminium foil laminated with LDPE for more than 6 months. l Two CD-ROM on coconut descriptors and IPM of coconut pests were re- leased. l Thirty-four collections of coconut were made. l A mini, hand-pressed oil detraction machine for oil palm has been de- signed. l The National Cashew Gene Bank (NCGB) has been enriched by germplasm collections. l High-Density Planting of Cashew, a bulletin on package of practices has been published for cashew growers. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 66 record the biomass reduction. Genetic diversity of these isolates was estimated through DNA fingerprinting by RAPD and AFLP. Cluster analysis of RAPD data showed that Coimbatore isolate is similar to that of Vepankulam. A new pest, slug caterpillar (Thosea andamanica), was recorded in a 6-year-old oil palm plantation in West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh. The caterpillars appeared with blue spots on dorsal side of body. The larval stages of the pest feed on older leaves caused heavy defoliation. CASHEW District-wise collection maps for 125 cashew accessions conserved in National Cashew Gene Bank (NCGB) and 8 in RCGBs at AICRP on Cashew Centres were prepared.