 Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species) Suspension Concentrate (SC) formulation of Beauveria bassiana; 30% Suspension Concentrate formulation with mineral oil as carrier 2. Target pests and delivery system: Helicoverpa armigera on pigeon pea 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): For all pigeon pea growing areas of India. 4. Validation and commercialization: Evaluated for efficacy against H. armigera and other lepidopteran pests on pigeon pea under AICRP (pigeon pea) 5. Whether licensed to private companies, If yes, details thereof: Data for provisional registration under section 9(3b) already completed and technology licensed to four companies till date. Eco-toxicity data needs to be generated as per registration guidelines to enable licensing data for complete registration under section 9(3). 6. Benefits: The formulation was also found effective against H. armigera and T. orichalcea on sunflower at RARS-Nandyal, Andhra Pradesh and ORS-Latur, Maharashtra.The formulation is not phytotoxic, eco-friendly and safe to non-target organisms and beneficial insects. 7. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Institute of Oilseed Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad- 500030 55 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Trichoderma harzianum Th4d 20% SC (Suspension Concentrate) 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Suspension Concentrate (SC) formulation of Trichoderma harzianum Th4d; shelf life of more than 18 months 2. Target pests and delivery system: Phytophthora seedling blight, Macrophomina root rot and Fusarium wilt of safflower and castor Grey mold of castor. Alternaria aster leaf blight and powdery mildew of sunflower. 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): All 4. Validation and commercialization: Multilocation field trials under AICRP carried out. 5. Whether licensed to private companies, If yes, details thereof: Licensed to 4 companies 6. Benefits: Trichoderma formulation has longer shelf life (more than 24 months), dosage required is very low (1 or 2ml/kg seed/L water), the strain is effective against many plant diseases (broad host range), symbiotic root colonizer, induces defense response in plants against pathogen and promotes plant growth. The production process supports high yield and desiccation tolerant viable propagules. Trichoderma harzianum Th4d SC liquid formulation can be produced at a low cost. 7. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Institute of Oilseed Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad- 500030 56 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Trichoderma harzianum Th4d 1.5% WP (Wettable powder) 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Wettable powder (WP) formulation of Trichoderma harzianum Th4d; shelf life of more than 18 months 2. Target pests and delivery system: Phytophthora seedling blight, Macrophomina root rot and Fusarium wilt of safflower and Fusarium wilt of castor 3.