 (C) Desirable qualifications : An established position of leadership and scientific reputation or a demonstrated capacity of leadership in any field of agricultural science. (D) Age: The candidate must not have attained the age of 55 years on the last date for receipt of applications by the ASRB. There is no maxi- mum age limit for the employees of the ICAR. Scientist S-6 (Directors/Dy. Director-General) (Both groups) (A) Scale of pay : Rs. 2500-3000. (B) Essential qualifications: (a) Doctorate in the area (to be specified). (b) At least 15 years'research/teaching experience at post-graduate level, of which 10 years should be at least at S-3 level or an equi- valent pay scale including 6 years as Dean/Director/Head of Division/Project Director/Joint Director/ADG/Head of Deptt. or in an equivalent post in a University in the Professor's scale. (The experience in research/teaching is to be reckoned from the date the candidate has completed his Master's Degree and will include the period, not exceeding 3 years, spent to obtain Docto- rate Degree). (b) A record of productive research as evidenced by published work. (C) Desirable qulifications : An established position- of leadership and scientific reputation or a demonstrated capacity in any field of agricultural science. (D) Age: The candidate must not have attained the age of 55 years on the last date for receipt of applications by the ASRB. There is no maximum age limit for the Council's employees. 8. There shall be a system of grant of promotion from one grade to the next higher grade on the basis of five-yearly assessment of performance for scientists in any of the grades specified in para 1 above who are not ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 39 members of the Agricultural Research Service but who were in regular ser- vice of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research on or before 1.10.1975. For this purpose, the criteria and method of Five- yearly Assessment have been laid down. These are based on the Peer Review System and are similar to that for scientists in the Agricultural Research Service except that Research Management Scientists are not required to produce Research Pro- ject Files and that they cannot have personal discussion with the Assessment Committee. The detailed criteria and methods are given in Appendix IV. 9. A scientist appointed to any scientific post under the Council after 31st March, 1960 on a regular basis and holding a post in any of the grades covered under these rules, will be eligible to add to his service quali- fying for superannuation pension (but not for any other class of pension), the actual period not exceeding one-fourth of the length of his service or the actual period by which his age at the time of recruitment exceeded 25 years or a period of 5 years, whichever is less, on fulfilment of the condi- tions prescribed under rule 30 of the CCS (Pension) Rules, 1972. 10.