 The University faculty successfully organized farmers training cum frontline demonstrations, farmers’ visits and gosthies to promote best farming practices, besides getting involved in activities under the aegis of Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav (MGMG) programme for increasing farm productivity and production. The teachers and students were also active participant of Swach Bharat Abhiyan (SBA), National Social Service (NSS), National Agri-fest and All India Inter Agricultural University Games & Sports Meet. The infrastructural development got a boost at Jhansi after the transfer of about 300 acre land to the University by Department of Agricultural Research & Education (DARE), Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India. The construction of Pre-fabricated Structures was completed to meet immediate need for laboratories, offices and students at Jhansi campus. Further, construction process was initiated after the approval of master plan & the architectural designs of essential constructions (Academic Building for College of Agriculture, Horticulture and Forestry, Administrative building, VC residence, Hostels etc) at Jhansi by various statutory bodies of the University. The performance of the university during last three years is being evaluated by the Expenditure Management Committee constituted by DARE under the chairmanship of Dr.S.L.Mehta, Former DDG (Education), ICAR. Meantime, DARE has accorded administrative approval to fill statutory posts of Deans, Directors and Librarian. These developments are likely to accelerate the recruitment and deployment of regular faculty after the necessary approval of Ministry of Finance, Government of India. The University is indebted to Shri. Pranab Mukherjee, Hon’ble Visitor of the University, Shri. Radha Mohan Singh Ji, Hon’ble Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India and Dr Panjab Singh, Hon'ble Chancellor for their guidance, encouragement and desired support. I am pleased to express my gratitude to the Central and State Governments, Dr. T. Mohapatra, Secretary Department of Agricultural Research & Education, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India and Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Hon’ble Members of University Board of Management and Finance Committee for their guidance and support to carry out our various activities. I thank Dr. Mukesh Srivastava, Registrar, Mr. Jawahar Lal Sharma, Administrative Officer, ICAR-CAFRI, Jhansi and Mr. Mahesh Mulani, Finance and Account Officer, ICAR-IGFRI, Jhansi, who looked after academic, administrative and finance related work of the University, respectively. I gratefully acknowledge the support received from my colleagues, consultants and students who made valuable contributions to make these achievements possible. I specially compliment Prof. Dr. Kusumakar Sharma for timely preparation of this Annual Report. Dated: 26.07.