 Visit of the Royal Commission on Agriculture in 1926 and its report in 1929 are the events that drew attention to the condition of Indian soils, Natural Resource Management in Pre-independent India 67 which have been depleted to the extent that no further depletion is possible. J.W. Leather, commonly acknowledged as the father of Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry in India, devised an indigenous method of characterizing Indian soils based on geological formations and soil colour. He classified soils as alluvial, black, red and lateritic, which still stand as a classical work. On the basis of information emanating from different surveys, Madam Scholasky prepared the first Soil Map of India, which she displayed in 1932 in England. A map depicting the physiographical and geological foundations of the country’s soils was published subsequently in 1935 by D.N. Wadia, J.N. Mukherjee and M.S. Krishnan under the aegis of the Geological Survey of India. The first ever Soil Map of India depicting soil properties, however was prepared in 1943 by B. Viswanath and A.C. Ukil at Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), New Delhi. The All-India Soil Survey Scheme, initiated in 1943, examined and collated the available soil survey information and the related analytical data, which could be suitably projected on the Soil Map of India. Its final report prepared by S.P. Raychaudhury in 1953, embodied the first comprehensive work on soil survey in the country. Soil map of India prepared by Viswanath and Ukil (1943) Pioneering work of J.W. Leather set the cornerstone of soil fertility research in India. He compiled soil fertility research work for the first time in India in 1907, describing recommended methods for soil analysis. He also established permanent manurial experiments at Cawnpore (now Kanpur) and Coimbatore in the year 1883 on the lines of Indian Agriculture after Independence 68 Lawes’ Rothamsted Experiment in United Kingdom for evaluating soil productivity on a long-term basis. Stewart (1947) recommended large-scale manurial trials to allow interplay of soil, climate and management factors to generate reliable data for practical use. Role of organic sources for supplying plant nutrients was realized long back. Organic matter status, C/N ratio and fluctuations in the amount of soil humus were investigated at several locations i.e., Coimbatore by W.H. Harrison, P.V. Ramiah and B. Viswanath (1922-1935); Nagpur by D.V. Bal and J.G. Shrikhande (1936-1939); and Allahabad by N.R. Dhar and associates (1932-1939). D.V. Bal, A. Srinivasan and J.K. Basu (1927-1939) significantly contributed for accurate estimation of nitrogen in the soil. This was followed by the determination of various forms of soil nitrogen and estimation of leaching and volatilization losses during the next few years (1932-1939) by V. Subramanyan and J.G. Shrikhande. At Lahore, A.N.