 In both the seasons, vegetable component (okra and cabbage) recorded highest yield. The EC and pH of the soil after harvest of kharif crop was 0.81 dS/m and 7.86 respectively. The EC and pH of irrigation water during rabi season was 3.62 dS/m and 7.00, respectively. Performance of sugarcane grown with resource conservation technique: Sugarcane water requirement is very high (~ 3000 mm) and due to changing climatic scenario inadequate supply of water will result in reduction of yield. Subsurface drip irrigation (SSDI) technique offers many advantages over surface drip irrigation (SDI) such as reduced evaporation, efficient water use, greater water uniformity and thus reduces the water requirement of the crop. However, in case of sugarcane, SSDI is taken up in very less area and mostly advocated with paired row planting technique. Though, paired row planting technique saves the irrigation water and also number of drip laterals and their installation costs but also often have resulted lower cane yield production due to inter-row competition between the paired rows. Thus, standardization of planting geometry of paired rows and spacing of drip laterals for SDI and SSDI under paired row planting systems is needed. In addition to this, surface retention of crop residues in conjunction with micro irrigation techniques would be helpful in improving hydro-thermal regimes and soil health further. Keeping these things in mind, a field experiment was conducted with six main plot treatments. The amount of applied irrigation water was equal to 100 and 80% of the crop evapotranspiration (ETC) under surface and subsurface irrigation methods. The crop was irrigated at 2 days intervals under SDI and SSDI and at 80 mm CPE under surface irrigation method. The maximum cane yield (141.7 t/ha) was recorded under the ZPR-75-225 cm + SSDI treatment which was significantly higher by 5–14% as compared to remaining planting and micro irrigation techniques, except PSR- 150 cm + SDI and ZPR-75-225 cm + SDI treatments. While covering of soil surface with live mulch of mungbean followed by retention of mungbean residue and trash in the field improved the cane yield on an average by 11% as compared to without residue retained treatment. This indicated that yield of paired row planted sugarcane could be improved significantly with adoption of zigzag planting, micro irrigation techniques and retaining the crop residues on soil surface. HORTICULTURE Fruits Fertigation in banana: Fertigation of 75% N, P2O5, K2O along with irrigation at 80% ER and polyethylene mulching (100 μ thickness) in combination with 2% micronutrient foliar spray of Banana Shakti/Arka Banana Special at 4th, 5th and 6th MAP and/or bunch spraying with 2% SOP (1st at male bud removal and 2nd 30 days later) is recommended for enhancing the yield of banana cv. Grand Naine in West Bengal and Gujarat to the tune of 15% (Gujarat) to 51% (West Bengal) with a B:C ratio of 3.15 to 3.82 respectively.