 Haemato-biochemical profile: The blood samples were collected before (day 0) and after administration of the treatment (days 3 and 7) and analysed for different haemato-biochemical parameters, viz. packed cell volume (PCV), glucose, protein, albumin (A) and globulin (G) ratio (A:G ratio) sodium (Na), potassium (K) and chloride (Cl) following standard methods. Experiment GBPUAT Therapeutic trials: A total 30 clinical cases of diarrhoea were divided randomly into three equal groups. The animals of group I were given Table 1. Experimental design Therapeutic agent Group Dose regimen Standard therapy (Cotrimazine) I (n=5) Standard therapy* + shisham leaf powder II (n=25) day 15 mg/kg body wt bid for 3 days 15 mg/kg body wt + 105 g/100 kg body wt twice a for 3 days *Cotrimazine contains trimethprim and sulfadiazine Table 2. Grading for clinical score Clinical Interpretations score Faecal consistency score depression score Dehydration score 0 Normal (well-formed faeces) Normal (fully alert and Normal (bright eyes and pliable responsive) skin) 1 Pasty faeces Mild depression, calf suckles Mild dehydration, slight loss but not vigorously of skin elasticity, skin tents < sec, eyes do not recess into orbit 2 Semi-liquid faeces still with Moderate depression, calf Moderate dehydration, skin tents > a solid component able to stand, suckling is 3 seconds but <10 sec, eyes weak or disorganized slightly recessed into orbit 3 Watery faeces Severe depression, unable Severe dehydration, skin tents >10 to stand or suckle sec, eyes markedly recessed into orbit Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY standard treatment in the form of Cflox-Tz bolus (ciprofloxacin + tinidazole) @ 1 bolus per 100 kg body weight twice a day for 3 days. The animals of group II were treated with shisham leaves powder @ 105 g/100 kg body weight twice a day for 3 days. The animals of group III received Cflox-Tz bolus @ 1 bolus per 100 kg body weight twice a day and shisham leaves powder @ 105 g/ 100 kg body weight twice a day for 3 days. Evaluation of therapy: The animals were observed closely and therapeutic efficacy of different treatments was evaluated on the basis of clinical profile and haemato-biochemical changes. Clinical profile: To study the clinical profile of diarrhoeic calves, a clinical score (0-3 basis) for faecal consistency, dehydration and depression was recorded on day 0 (before treatment) and days 3 and 7 post-therapy, as suggested by Walker et al. (1998) and described in the report of IVRI. Major clinical manifestation, viz. general appearance, status of dehydration, posture, temperature, pulse, respiration and heart rate were recorded in all affected calves before and after treatment. Hemato-biochemical study: Blood samples from all affected calves were collected before and after treatment for blood bio-chemical parameters including PCV, glucose, total protein, albumin (A), globulin (G), A:G ratio, serum sodium, potassium and chloride.