 The details of Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) are given in respect of BE and RE for 2001–2002 and BE for 2002–2003. This excludes the payment to the ICAR. ICAR AWARDS CEREMONY 2002 The ICAR, over the years, has instituted a number of awards recognizing that an appropriate incentive and reward system in an organization makes the performance of its employees proficient, productive and satisfying. There could be no greater satisfaction to a scientist, extension worker, farmer and development official than to witness him or her sincere efforts being recognized at national level. A new award, Chaudhary Devi Lal Outstanding All-India Co-ordinated Research Project award, which was instituted last year, is being given for the first time to the two All- India Co-ordinated Research Projects as joint award for their meritorious contributions. This year, the awardees included 27 scientists and their 46 associates from the ICAR Institutes, 18 scientists/teachers and their 13 associates from State Agricultural Universities. Out of the total 112 awardees, approximately 15% were women DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 214 scientists. Nine awards were given away to the Scientists of the Defence Research Development Organization, Field Research Laboratory, Leh, Ladakh; Mumbai Veterinary College, Mumbai; and Shri Venketeshwar University, Triputhy. There were all outside the National Agricultural Research System comprising ICAR Institutions and State Agricultural Universities. A book written by a farmer on Indigenous Traditional Knowledge and farming practices was also been rewarded. One agricultural university, one National Institute and one National Research Centre/ Project Directorate received Best Institution Awards for their excellent contribution to agricultural research and education. There are 18 ‘Jawaharlal Nehru Awards’ for doctoral thesis including one Joint Award. The research work done by the young scientists has broken several new grounds in the field of Crop Science, Animal Sciences, Fisheries, Natural Resource Management, and Post-harvest Technology and Agricultural Engineering. Distinguished contribution of the awardees has been in isolation of RIL and APR gene for achieving durable resistance in wheat, heat tolerance in wheat, establishing protoplast regeneration system from indica, japonica, wild abortive cytoplasmic male sterile and maintainer line of rice, and RT-PCR and nucleic acid hybridization assays for detection of blue-tongue virus in sheep, identification of casual agent of sterility mosaic disease of pigeon pea, insect tolerance to Bt toxins/straints, sustainability of rice-wheat cropping system and groundwater management for sunflower cultivation after rice.