 Since pigeonpea is a slow-growing crop in the early stages, it offers Krishi Vigyan Kendra Reddipalli, Anantapur (Andhara Pradesh) 515 701  less competition to groundnut. Even if groundnut fails, some returns will be obtained from pigeonpea. Keywords: mixed cropping, risk distribution 2356 Mixed cropping of maize with soybean Mixed cropping of maize with soybean is a useful cropping system. Soybean is a leguminous crop, which helps in nitrogen fixation in the soil and increases soil fertility. Mixed cropping of maize and soybean is commonly adopted by the farmers of Mashal village in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh. In this system, first ploughing is done to remove the residues of previous crop and the field is ploughed again after receipt of rain. Maize and soybean seeds are broadcast uniformly. Sowing of maize and soybean is done in the first week of June and both the crops are harvested during September- October. Mixed cropping is beneficial to farmers, as it minimises insect-pest attack and more than one crop is grown in a particular field. Keywords: nitrogen fixation, residues, mixed cropping, leguminous crops Shri Rajeev Kumar Room no 32 D, NBH II Hostel, Himachal Pradesh University, Summer hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2303 Use of mixed cropping to cover risk of failure Tribal farmers of Nandurbar, Dhule and Ahmednagar districts of Maharashtra generally take mixed crops to cover the risk of crop failure of sole crop. They take nagali with maize, sorghum and pigeonpea. Pigeonpea is mixed with groundnut or vice- versa. Pulses like blackgram and chickpea are also mixed with sorghum/ maize. Keywords: mixed cropping, risk of failure, nagali, pigeonpea, maize, sorghum, groundnut, blackgram, chickpea Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2347 Mixed cropping of wheat, mustard and pea The practice of sowing wheat mixed with mustard and pea is prevalent in wheat and mustard growing belt of Jammu region (Jammu and Kashmir). These crops are different with respect to their adaptability and potential to cope stress Agriculfollowing outbreak of diseases, attack of pest or even adverse climatic conditions. Thus the intergeneric differences of the crops would ensure that in the eventuality of Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricul tural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection,  any such occurrence, one or the another crop may suffer but still others will sustain. Keywords: mixed crop, intergeneric differences, risk avoidance Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002.