 However, Installation of foggers/misters depends on the relative humidity and temperature in the selected locations. Fertigation Equipments Application of nutrient through irrigation water is generally referred as fertigation. The main advantages are control of timing, concentration, location and proportion of nutrients. Various types of fertilizer injection equipments available in market are as follows: 1. Venturi 2. Pressure differential injection 3. Pump injection Venturi: It operates on the principle, where a flow constriction with specific entrance & exit design installed on pipeline creates a vacuum due to increased velocity of flow through the constriction. The injection rate depends on pressure differential from the main line is accomplished by a pressure gradient of 0.1 to 0.2 atmospheres. Irrigation water enters the tank through 1/2” to 3/8” pipe and water with fertilizer solution flows into the mainline. The injection rate depends upon the pressure gradient. When pressure gradient increases (0.1-0.7) injection rate increases & it varies from 300 l/hr to 1000 l/hr. Advantages 1 Very simple to operate. A stock solution does not have to be premixed. 2 Easy to install and requires little maintenance. Changing fertilizer is easy. 3 Ideal for dry formulations. Disadvantages 1 Concentration of solution decreases as fertilizer dissolves, leading to poor placement of nutrients. 2 Requires pressure loss in main irrigation line. 3 Tank must be able to withstand irrigation line pressure. 4 Proportional fertigation not possible. 5 Limited capacity. 6 Accuracy of application is limited and determined by volume rather than by proportion. Pump injection: This is the most common method of injection of fertilizer into irrigation systems. Injection Venturi system across it. This pressure differential is between 5% to 75% according to the injector’s design. The inlet pressure required for the operation ranges from 1.4 bars to 9.8 bars (with suction hoses 12 mm in diameter) depending upon the model. Advantages 1 Simple in design with no moving parts. 2 Easy to install, requiring little maintenance. 3 Fertilizer rates can be controlled with some accuracy. 4 Suitable for very low injection rates. 5 Injection can be controlled with a metering valve. 6 Low cost. Disadvantages 1 Quantitative fertigation is difficult. 2 Requires pressure loss in main irrigation line (can be 33%). 3 Automation is difficult. Pressure differential injection (Fertilizer tank with flow by pass): The principle of operation includes a throttling valve, which force some of the mainline flow through a batch tank, which is connected to mainline. Flow diversion Fertilizer tank with flow by pass Pump injection Indian Horticulture 66 energy is provided by electric motors, impeller-driven power units and water-driven hydraulic motors. The pumps are usually rotary, gear, piston or diaphragm-type which deliver fertilizer solution from the supply tank into the pressurized mainline.