 Use of such technologies lays focus on soil and water conservation as well as fertility management, resulting in a paradigm shift towards maximization of productivity, profitability and sustainability of hill eco-system. This is in practice for several years. Name and address of the discloser Shri Prem Singh, village Gawahi, P.O. Sandhu, Tehsil Theog, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 222. Location of use of the ITK Farmers in Himalayan region. Experimenters Dr. Pradeep K. Sharma, Chief Scientist (WM); Dr. Atul, Head, Department of Agroforestry and Environment, COA; Dr. O. C. Kapur, Senior Scientist (Soils), Dr. S.S. Masand, Senior Scientist (Soils); Department of Soil science, CSKHPKV, Palampur, Himachal Pradesh. Results and discussion The ITK-based technology has variously been termed Sloping Agriculture Land Technology (SALT). SALT is a package technology on soil conservation and food production, integrating different soil- conservation measures in just one setting. Basically, SALT is a method of growing field and permanent crops in 3-5 m wide bands between contoured rows of nitrogen-fixing trees. Contour testing The planting of trees did not follow exactly the contour lines. A deviation, as high as 7.8 m, was observed between the actual contour lines and the planting of trees. Likewise, deviations in plant to plant distance, plant height and plant spread were also observed. Important Value Index exercise To study the diversity of species and heterogeneity between SALT and non-SALT areas under investigation, phyto-sociological studies were carried out for different plant species occurring in those areas. In the non-SALT area, there was much diversity in plant species. In addition to many grasses (12 species), shrubs like Rumex, Rubus, Rosa and Berberis spp. were also found. Higher numerical strength of Rosa spp. in non SALT areas compared with that of Rumex spp. failed to generate a variation in IVI order. Species diversity was greatly reduced in SALT managed areas. Performance and productivity estimation of the area More than 92% of the trees planted survived. The data were analysed using the two sets of degrees of slopes as treatment, i.e., very high (>50 degrees) and moderate (30-40 degrees), along with the combination of the terraced and non-terraced areas in the SALT area. The analysis of variance indicated the significant 8 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture effect of slope on the spread and height of apple trees. It can be inferred that at high slopes the farmer’s intervention of developing small terraces is useful in getting better performance. The plant height as well as the spread of the apple trees was generally more in the terraced and high slopes. In addition, the contouring at moderate slopes also proved beneficial, but not at higher slopes. There was reduction in the species diversity with the introduction of the orchard species.