 Webster’s Dictionary quotes ethics as “the discipline dealing with what is good and bad and with moral duty and obligation” or “the principles of conduct governing an individual or a group” and “moral principles, one often sees it applied to questions of correct behaviour within a relatively narrow area of activity”. Ethics plays important and vital roles in our lives. In our everyday life we are forced to make choices on numerous things; starting from short term things such as buying materials like cloths and cosmetics to medium to long term things such as automobiles and houses and on life time things like partner selection and marriage and choosing the career paths. These choices are made based on needs, availability, and economics, influences of family and friends and societal influences at large. We must understand that our choices are not taken on random basis but are based on underlying and untold Ethical Principles. Many a times we take a choice that does not hurt others, particularly the ones near and dear to us, more importantly we feel happy if our choices help or make others happy. In the modern times we also consider the influences of our choices on the environment and society. Sustaining the happiness of the chooser and his family also plays important roles in major decisions. Happiness, sustainability, societal benefits and environmental safety are some of the important ethical principles on which our livelihood choices are made. Agricultural Ethics involves a system of moral principles or rules to be followed for farming. This encompasses managing resources such as input resources like the land, water, energy, seeds, chemicals and non-chemicals for farm production; output resources such as the farm produce and the biomass generated as a result of farming; human resources like the farm workers, their families and other persons associated with the farming; animal resources used either for the farm energy inputs or for the manure, milk and meat; mechanical resources used for production systems; the ecosystem in which the production occurs; environmental impact and management; and sustainability of food production so the future generations do not 173 compromise for their food supplies and livelihoods. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations asserts that ethical values in agriculture determine the values for food, enhanced well-being of farming families, protecting human welfare, natural resources and the nature itself. The ultimate goal of agricultural ethics is to develop comprehensive and clear policies, creating standards for right farming activities for self-sufficiency and sustainability. 2. Gandhiji’s Ethical Principles on Agriculture 2.1. Farmer the Pivotal Person of National Sustainability Farmer is pivotal to agricultural production systems.