 This book is a compilation of profile of 100 Agri-Startups of different domains of agriculture and allied areas. These start-ups have been supported by ICAR at various stage such technology license, incubation, training, IP filing etc. Other than this Council is regularity emphasizing on entrepreneurial activities at different institutes. Conclusion The interaction between R&D institutions in agriculture and industry has significantly increased over the last few years the impact has been less than desired. There are several stages of development through which a new technology passes before reaching the farmers through commercial channels; and in the initial stages there is very limited consideration of business. The subsequent stages shall involve optimization and take into account business as well as marketing considerations. Experience has shown that the industry and the academic institutions have adopted an over- cautious, risk-averse and safety-first 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 2008-09 to 2013-14 2014-15 to 2019-20 742 501 25 611 53 6 Entrepreneurship Activities at ICAR Entrepreneurs/Incubators Admitted for Incubation Entrepreneurs/Incubators Initiated their Business ICAR Institute Involved Access Digital Copies of Indian Farming at http://epubs.icar.org.in/ejournal Indian Farming January 2020 69 FOCUS AREAS OF ITMU & ABI Seed & Planting Material The improved varieties, hybrids having multiple disease resistance and high yield in crops like vegetables, fruits, medicinal and ornamental Enabling New Generation Entrepreneurs in Horticulture through Horti-Business Incubation M R Dinesh, H C Prasanna and R H Laxman ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560 089 Institute Technology Management Unit & Agri-Business Incubation centre located at ICAR- Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru is a facility of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) created through National Agriculture Innovation Fund (NAIF) to commercialize the technologies of ICAR-IIHR by non-exclusive licensing, nurture horticulture technology based start-ups/ventures and horti-business consultancy through incubation. Technology developed for the benefit of farmers and other stakeholders will be successful when it is adopted by large number of growers. This is possible only when the technology is made available in adequate quantity with quality. The technologies developed by the research institutes was made available for farming community through commercialization and incubation of start-ups. Main objective of ITMU & ABI unit is to impart appropriate IP protection to the innovations, showcase, transfer, commercialize innovations from the ICAR-IIHR. The ITMU and ABI a unit of ICAR-IIHR, Bengaluru strives to be a bridge that links the research community with all the stakeholders of horticulture and business community.