 In tropical tuber crops, 30 tonnes of planting material was distributed among farmers. A total of 204 wild mushroom specimens have been collected. A new species of Lysurus as L. himalayanesis sp. nov. has been reported from Himachal Pradesh, which is a new record in the world. Most-prized medicinal mushroom Reishi or Ling Zhi (Ganoderoma lucidum) could be successfully grown for the first time in the country and indigenous technology to organically produce Red Reishi has been developed. In floriculture, two varieties of gladiolus have been released. A low-priced method of orchid micro-propagation has been developed, using isabgol as a gelling agent and polypropylene bags as culture vessels. In plantation crops, 34 collections of coconut have been made. Fertigation has been found to reduce fertilizer requirement up to 50% NPK in arecanut palm. A cam type, pedal-operated, cashewnut sheller has been developed to overcome drudgery experienced in presently used hand- cum-pedal-operated sheller. In cashewnut 102,212 grafts OVERVIEW 3 03-004-01.p65\3\(28.02.03\06.03.03) were produced and distributed to different governments, NGOs and farmers. In spices, 234 accessions have been added for germplasm conservation. A RAPD-based molecular marker technique has been developed in black pepper for identification of true hybrids. In the area of Natural Resource Management, important achievements include: preparation of soil map of India on 1 : 1 million scale for land-use planning for sustainable agricultural production; and publication of soil resource atlases of Bhopal, Guna, Betul and Ratlam districts. Soil- erosion maps for seven states were generated for formulating soil-conservation and management measures. Cost-effective bio-engineering measures could be developed integrating structural control measures with appropriate vegetation of Erianthus munja, Ipomoea carnea and/or giant napier. Integrated nutrient management for realizing sustainability was given priority. The significant findings included: addition of lime and farmyard manure (FYM) for sustainable management of acid soils; and standardization of assessing methods for survival of inoculated microbes (Azospirillum and Azotobacter), using stable genetic markers. Implementation of natural resource management project in the command area of RP Channel-V of Sone Canal System in Bihar and Gandak Command of eastern Uttar Pradesh demonstrated significant reduction in the cost of field preparation, weeding and labour requirement and resulted in higher yield and net income of people. Adoption of alternate raised-and-sunken bed system and consequent enhancement in the productivity owing to in-situ conservation of rainwater in rice fields was quite encouraging. Soil salinity research in coastal ecosystem led to precise assessment of soil salinity using GIS technique in large areas in an irrigation command, thus providing the right approach for managing such soils.