 DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 130 The production was 1,562.5 and 1,527.5 kg; 2,128.3 and 2,053.3 kg and 2,115 and 2,009.7 kg/ha respectively. Large-scale breeding of giant freshwater prawn Breeding and seed production of Macrobrachium rosenbergii was carried out in a semi-closed two phase larval rearing system. Twenty-one batches were reared till metamorphosis. Intensive rearing of the post-larvae in outdoor cement cisterns revealed that they could be reared @ 735/m2 in one month. In the monoculture trials of the giant freshwater prawn, an yield of 658 kg/ha/7 month was recorded. Crossbreeding of commercially important freshwater prawns Crossbreeding was attempted between Mahanadi river stock of Macrobrachium malcolmsonii and Padma river stock of M. gangeticum. Hatched zoea larvea were reared in salinity range of 12–18 ppt. The larvae of F1 generation were more or less similar in characteristics to those of M. gangeticum. However, the red chromatophores found on entire region of merus of second chelate legs from stage 16–11 of M. gangeticum larvae were absent among the hybrids. Multi-locational testing of improved Jayanti rohu Under multi-location field testing experiments, Jayanti rohu was cultured at Jallandhar (Punjab), Rahara (West Bengal) and Vijayawada (Andhra Pradesh). Results indicated higher growth efficiency of improved rohu over control in all the three testing centres. The culture of improved rohu was also carried out at stocking densities of 100 and 150 fingerlings in 10 m2 cages for six months. The growth rate was higher in lower stocking density as compared to those reared under high stocking. Early maturation of Indian major carps reared on lysine and methionine supplemented diet The CIFA has achieved success in advancing the maturity of the Indian major carps by supplementing the semi-balanced diet with lysine and methionine broodstocks of the Indian major carps were reared on the 5 mm pelleted semi- balanced diet. Natural spawning took place in the cemented tank after 6 hr of the ovaprim administration. Cage culture of fish Cage culture experiment has been initiated to demonstrate the possibilities of fish production in cage from an open water system. A cage having dimension of 12 m3 made of 5 mm Netlon screen was used to grow fishes in Mathura beel and West Bengal. The cage was reinforced by framed acrylic pipes. Fish growth increment in 45 days has been recorded as 50 g in Catla catla and 44 g in Labeo rohita. Fish health Experiments conducted on reproductive physiological response of fish Rita rita to aquatic pollutants revealed accumulation of ovarian and hepatic cholesterol and reduction in hormone 17ß estradiol level indicating reduced steriodogenesis and consequent reproductive incompetence. Survey and breeding of the ornamental fishes A survey was conducted to identify ornamental fish species in north and north eastern states. More than 100 species of ornamental fishes were identified.