 He expressed that the knowledge and skill tests suggested by NAARM are very much useful for recording the performance of CAFT over different periods of time and will use the same in future programmes. He also appreciated the indicators used by NAARM in assessing handholding support of CAFT Directors and he informed that he will use such indicators for tracking the Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 59 training transfer and impact of programmes of this CAFT. He also suggested that criteria for assessing the performance of CAFT need to be identified and standardized so that criteria can be used to rate the performance of CAFT centres. Such rating will motivate the CAFT centres towards enhanced performance. The following are the opinion of Dr. Prathaban, Director (Clinics), TNVASU, Chennai about the performance of the CAFT:  Though, the CAFT is constantly organizing many programmes, the response has been overwhelming and it is because of its faculty strength and the resultant popularity  Many advanced facilities are brought to this centre through CAFT  The centre is good in large animal diseases diagnostics too  The CAFT staff need international training to update their knowledge and skills in emerging areas and advances  Trying to improve the accommodation facilities  CAFT may provide non-recurring contingencies in creating or renovating the infrastructural facilities Recommendations for improvement of CAFT Centre Based on the discussion with the CAFT Director, participants of the programme, University authorities and observation, the following recommendations are suggested:  National level training needs may be assessed specific to this CAFT targeting the programmes of XII plan period  Programme-wise pre and post exposure knowledge and skill tests may be conducted regularly, so that such evaluation will help in understanding the level and extent of training effectiveness and constant improvement of such effectiveness  The faculty of the CAFT may be trained through national and international programmes in order to further enhance their capacity in catering to the emerging national training needs and demands  Training environment in terms of boarding and lodging needs to be strengthened Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 60 II. Centre for Advanced Faculty Training in Horticulture (Fruits) Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth Rahuri, Ahmednagar, Maharashtra CAFT Objective  Providing training and retraining in specialized and need-based subjects primarily for augmenting and teaching-learning capacity of faculty CAFT Director Dr. S. A.