 Effects of aquatic pollutants on breeding biology of fishes: Study was conducted to identify deleterious effects of triclosan (TCS), an antimicrobial compound used in personal care products, and cypermethrin (CYP), a widely used synthetic pyrethroid insecticide, on fish biology. Chronic exposure of Labeo rohita to environmentally relevant concentrations of TCS and CYP resulted in up-regulation or down-regulation of genes associated to hypothalamic pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis (FSH, Kiss1, Kiss2 and Vitellogenin), respectively. Higher levels of reproductive hormones like 17β estradiol, 11 ketotestosterone, vitellogenin, aromatase, FSH and GnRH were observed in TCS- exposed fish while levels of these hormones decreased in CYP exposure. The biological changes would negatively affect reproductive competence affecting fish diversity and stock in open waters. Impact of barge movement on phytoplankton diversity in rivers: The barge movement induced risk to phytoplankton diversity loss was assessed for the first time in India. An index-based risk assessment framework had been successfully developed which disentangled barge induced phytoplankton diversity loss from loss due to biological processes and predicted a substantive overall risk of phytoplankton loss of 31.44% due to barge movement for goods transportation. It was recommended that the riverine system needs sojourn time to self- regenerate plankton communities that require one day, at least. Hence, restricting barge movement for at least one day interval in the waterways can be a sensible strategy for water management and phytoplankton conservation. Soil and Water Productivity Fisheries Restoration in Ganga River Under the ongoing Governments’ flagship programme ‘Namami Gange’, it is aimed to restore the Indian major carps (IMC) and hilsa fisheries, along with improvement of the riverine health. In this direction, the wild fish germplasms from the river were harnessed, bred in captivity and the fingerlings were ranched back in the depleted stretches of the Ganga river. So far 77 ranching programmes have been conducted with release of 5.8 million fish seeds of Labeo rohita (Rohu), Labeo catla (Catla/Bhakur), Cirrhinus mrigala (Mrigal/Naini), Labeo calbasu (Kalbasu/Keronchi), Mystus sp. (Tengra), Macrobrachium rossenbergii (Jhinga) in depleted stretches in five states during 2017-2022. The impact of the continuous effort has been noteworthy; the total fish catch has increased from 3,796.57 tonnes in 2018-19 to 4263.55 tonnes in 2019-20. Riverine health has also got positive impact as indicated by improved dissolved oxygen and other key parameters. Besides ranching, massive public awareness programmes have been organized towards conservation of broodstock, hilsa and Gangetic dolphins in the river Ganga.