 Green Revolution in India, which led to increase in food production, alleviating hunger and poverty was driven by the introduction of high-yielding varieties of rice and wheat. While the wheat and rice production doubled, the production of indigenous rice varieties and other food crops like millets declined (Nelson et al. 2019). ICAR has pioneered focused research programs on other grains like sorghum, finger, and pearl millet, which would greatly reduce the energy use by up to 12% for cereal production nationally. The water-use can be further reduced by almost 25%, and greenhouse gas emissions would be reduced by up to 13%. The protein availability can be boosted by up to 5% in people’s diets, and iron by up to 49%, by the use of varieties of grains. Further, the switching over to rotation of crops would significantly increase drought tolerance and overall climate resilience of cereals by 13%. Thereby, the losses would be substantially reduced in comparison to the water-dependent rice crops (Bryce 2019). Millets are now called as nutri-cereals. Enhancing millets’ production and consumption in India depends on the consumers. The realization of the fact that Millets offer a solution to lifestyle disorders would encourage more consumption. Further, if producers realize that millets require less inputs and is an economically viable option, they will go for preferential cultivation. The Centre and many States have decided to promote millets in a major policy shift. In India, the coarse cereals, such as millets and sorghum, can ensure better nutritional security, and reduce resource demand. The greenhouse gas emissions can be controlled, and climate resilience can be enhanced without reducing calorie production or requiring more land. ICAR has taken significant strides in this direction. 3.4. Introduction of Appropriate Technology Gandhiji always emphasized using appropriate technologies in meeting basic needs and achieving equity. The phased manner development activities should be taken up so that the beneficial aspects reach the society sustainably, promoting positive development at the same time. His concepts of Swadeshi and Swaraj implied the use of appropriate technology and development approach to meet basic needs, respectively (Bakker 1990). He advocated the self- help approach (Swadeshi) as a strategy for rural development. ICAR has developed many innovative, cost-effective, and eco-friendly farm technologies and implements (e.g., coconut de-husker, power tiller, etc.), which has reduced the drudgery of the farmers, reduced the gender divide, and has contributed to enhancing farm productivity. Various machines and suitable methodologies were developed by ICAR to mechanize different labour- intensive farm operations in plains and hilly regions. A self-propelled site-specific fertilizer applicator was developed for top dressing in wide spaced field crops.