 Two possible expla­ nations could be that, as indicated in other studies, farmers in low irri­ gation frequency systems apply irrigation late to save the crop rather than to enhance productivity which may mute the yield response, or that water may not be the only yield-limiting factor in the lower input sys­ tems (Urfels et al., 2020). Explaining these aspects requires further research. 3.3. Irrigation cost, high-value agriculture, and minimum support price In the EGP, it is often assumed that poverty alleviation in rural economies is constrained by high irrigation costs and low market prices for agricultural (Shah et al., 2012; Sidhu et al., 2020; Singh, 2018). We explored this assumption but found that farm size remains primary limiting factor for FDPIs from irrigation-led intensification for most rice and wheat farmers. To investigate these claims we first conducted a sensitivity analysis of irrigation costs and looked at the impact of providing all farmers the official minimum support price rather than the farm gate prices they receive (which are substantially lower). For irrigation, several irrigation technologies with different pricing mechanisms exist in the EGP. This matters because irrigation often comprises the highest component among input costs in the rice-wheat systems of the EGP. High prices are the result of diesel pumps use and expensive rental markets (Shah et al., 2012; Urfels et al., 2020). But options to reduce irrigation cost exist and include better pump selection (Bom et al., 2001; Foster et al., 2019; Urfels et al., 2020) or shifting to electric energy which is expanding quickly in the region. On average, the estimated economic returns in the high-irrigation intensity group over the low irrigation group were estimated at 0.11 PPP$ day−1 for rental pumps, 0.34 PPP$ day−1 for small diesel pumps, and 0.38 PPP$ day−1 for electric pumps (Fig. 4, Table 2). But the right- skewed IBI distribution lead to significantly smaller gains for households in the bottom quartile of IBI values (Fig. 5). The median FDPI difference Fig. 3. Partial dependency plots from a non-parametric model (randomForest) that was run on a wide set of predictors to estimate, ceteris paribus, the average change in yield (top), daily kcal per person (middle), and FDPI (bottom) with increasing irrigation numbers. Rug (up ticks on the x-axis) indicate data availability and thus the limits of the inference space. A. Urfels et al. Agricultural Systems 207 (2023) 103618 7 between and high and low irrigation groups for the bottom IBI was 0.14 PPP$ day−1 with electric irrigation prices (compared to 1.85 PPP$ day−1 for the upper quartile, see Fig. 5). Given that our previous results assumed no irrigation cost, it is not surprising that reductions in irrigation costs do not change our conclu­ sion. But the small impact on farm incomes means that irrigation pricing is unlikely an effective policy lever for affecting irrigation behavior as is often assumed (Sidhu et al.