 This expanded over time to include data communications, first by circuit-switched transport, then by packet data transport via General Packet Radio Service (GPRS), and Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution (EDGE). 2G networks developed as a replacement for first generation (1G) analog cellular networks. Subsequently, the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) developed third-generation (3G) UMTS standards, followed by the fourth-generation (4G) LTE Advanced and the fifth-generation 5G standards. The Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) was a 3™ generation wireless telecommunication system. UMTS combined the properties of the circuit-switched voice network with the properties of the packet-switched data network and offered a multitude of new possibilities compared to the earlier systems. Some of the key features of UMTS (3G) were enhanced data transfer rates, wider bandwidth, supporting wide range of multimedia services. High-Speed Packet Access (HSPA) and HSPA+ were introduced in 3GPP Release 5 and 7 which significantly increased the data rate. “https://www.researchgate.net/figure/Timeline-of-Mobile-communication-generations-27_fig2_349740908 TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 8 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 9 An overview of some key 3GPP releases is shown in Table 1: Table 1: Summary of 3GPP Releases upto Release 15 and their main features Release 99 • The basics of early 3G deployment Release 4 • 1st step towards IP based operation • Also defines the low chip rate TDD mode (TD-SCDMA) Release 5 • IMS – IP-based Multimedia Services • HSDPA – High Speed Download Packet Access Release 6 • 2nd phase of IMS • High Speed Uplink Release 7 • Enhanced uplink • Other Spectrum • Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) antennas Release 8 • Long Term Evolution (LTE) and System Architecture Evolution (SAE) Release 9 • Enhancement of Release 8 features • Refinement of LTE • Preliminary studies into LTE Advanced Release 10 • LTE Advanced (IMT Advanced) Release 11-12 • Improvement in LTE – A • Enhanced Small Cell Support • Improved Self Organizing Networks (SON) Release 13 • Features like LTE – M and Narrowband IoT (NB-IoT) were introduced Release 14 • Provided additional support to IoT • Mission Critical Services • Device to Device Communication Release 15 • IMT 2020 2.1.2. 4G-LTE/ LTE-Advanced LTE, originally introduced in 3GPP Release 8, was developed to provide faster mobile broadband access, offering a generational performance leap over 3G. The major change in LTE compared to previous systems was the adoption of an all-IP approach. LTE Advanced (3GPP release 10, 11, 12) evolved to optimize for better mobile broadband experience, enabling gigabit-class throughput with the introduction of advanced techniques, such as carrier aggregation and higher-order MIMO.