 First, system called the nutrient film technique ( N F T ) i n w h i c h plants are placed in a polyethylene tube that slits cut in the plastic for the roots to be inserted. Nutrient solution is pumped through this tube for dipping the roots. The solution is re- circulated and nutrients are added as depletion occurs. Other systems use rockwool, saw dust or perlite as the supporting medium, while nutrients are applied in liquid form. These production systems are very clean, with no organic material present. In addition, they give the grower complete control over the crop`s nutritional needs to maximize growth and fruit production. However, it requires a very strict and specific fertilization schedule. Mistake in calculation of quantities used for scheduling would result in immediate and visible deficiencies or toxicity in the crop than in the other methods employed. Selection of site and structures Selection of site for taking up of protected cultivation is a critical step and this has to be done with utmost care. Places having high rainfall and humidity are not suitable for its cultivation, since this encourages many foliar diseases. Also the areas with high wind velocity are not suitable since they are likely to damage the structure and the polyethylene sheet frequently, thereby enhancing the maintenance cost of the structure. Avoid the location or Effect of low night temperature on fruit shape Thirty day old plants of capscium transplanted on soil raised beds in polyhouse Two-month old capsicum plant on soilless media in polyhouse March–April 2021 5 area where heavy rains accompanied with gusty winds are prevalent to avoid damage to the protected structure. Protected structures act as physical barrier and play a key role in integrated pest management by preventing spreading of insects, pests and viruses causing severe damage to the crop. The selection of protected structure should be determined by the grower`s expectations, suitable varieties (Table 2), experience, and above all its cost-effectiveness in relation to the available market for the produce. Types of polyhouse for capsicum cultivation (1) Natural ventilation polyhouse: Natural ventilation uses no specific control devices for regulating environmental parameter inside the polyhouse hence, low initial investment. It can be constructed with locally available material such as bamboo, timber etc. also, and is suitable during cold weather, especially in hilly areas. The external cool air enters the greenhouse through the lower side openings while the hot internal air exits through the roof openings due to the density difference between air masses of different temperature and resulting in the lowering of temperature in the greenhouse. In order to prevent insect intrusion and decrease insecticide use, it is common practice to position insect screens in the ventilation openings. Table 2. Varieties available in India for protected cultivation No. Hybrids No.