 Specialized Pheromone and Lure Application Technology (SPLAT) is one such wax-based formulation with slow and sustained release of pheromones (gossyplure) that disrupts mating of pink bollworm and thereby restricts the population buildup. Although there are many tools available for pink bollworm management, the disadvantages associated with each one far outweigh their benefits. In addition, it is an ecofriendly formulation and can be an integral part of existing IPM strategies. This technology should be demonstrated and popularized among farmers for optimum yield. *Corresponding author’s email: khokharmk3@gmail.com Indian Farming 37 November 2023 Pest management through trap and border crops in vegetables Meenu Kumari1*, R S Pan1, P Bhavana1 and A K Singh1 1Farming System Research Centre for Hill and Plateau Region, ICAR Research Complex for Eastern Region, Ranchi, Bihar 834 010 Ecological management of pests is a sustainable practical approach to achieve food security while protecting environment. The primary objective of Integrated Pest Management (IPM) is reducing input cost for pesticides and save ecosystem from harmful effect of pesticide residues. Many strategies like use of sticky and pheromone traps, early and delayed planting etc. are common recommendations while trap crop and border crop are unique with respect to managing enemies i.e. diverting crop enemies causing economic losses and enhancing natural enemies which are beneficial from ecosystem point of view with additional advantage of economic benefit from secondary crop. Therefore, trap and border crop are efficient, environment friendly and sustainable approach to manage insect-pests for commercial cultivation of vegetable crops. Keywords: Border crop, Pest management, Trap crop, Vegetable P EST management practices usually involve indiscriminate usage of harmful pesticides which leads to development of insecticide resistance and non-targeted effect on natural enemies and environment. Major insect-pests in different parts of the country is reported to be 33 to 40%. Therefore, for sustainable ecosystem of crop production, IPM (Integrated pest management) is recommended. Trap cropping and border cropping are one of the alternative pest management techniques that can be easily adopted by farmers for vegetable cultivation. Trap and Border crop Trap crops are those crop species planted with main crop as intercropping or in border rows with the specific purpose of attracting insects or pests for feeding, breeding (oviposition) and survival thereby avoiding damage to the main crop by completing their life cycle on trap crop species. However, trap crop must be compatible to the main crop and non-competitive for fertilizer Indian Farming 73 (11): 37-39; November 2023 inputs. Trap crop can also be used as a live nursery for beneficial predator species as it congregates pest population in limited area.