 In addition to above interventions, the pilot study also recommends crop diversification (shifting from water guzzling crops to low water requiring crops) in over-exploited areas for sustainable use of groundwater. Microbial consortia to enhance drought tolarence in rainfed crops: Plant beneficial microorganisms have a great potential to enhance the drought tolerance and crop productivity. Two microbial consortia, viz. Pseudomonas putida P7 + Bacillus subtilis B30 (consortia 1) and Pseudomonas putida P45 + Bacillus amyloliquefaciens B17 (consortia 2) were developed and evaluated at Ballowal Saunkhri (Punjab), Parbhani (Maharashtra), and Vijayapura (Karnataka) in maize, kharif sorghum and rabi sorghum, respectively. The seed + soil application of consortia 1 recorded highest grain yield in maize (32.46%) and rabi sorghum (29.48%) over uninoculated control at Ballowal Saunkhri (Punjab) and Vijayapura (Karnataka), respectively. Whereas, the seed + soil application of consortia 2 recorded highest grain yield in kharif sorghum (22.47%) at Parbhani (Maharashra) in comparison with uninoculated control. Both the consortia showed encouraging results for the last two years by improving the grain yield of maize, kharif sorghum and rabi sorghum over uninoculated control. Rainfed crop varieties to cope up with delayed onset of monsoon: Agricultural production, productiv- ity and stability in rainfed areas is more vulnerable to climate variability particularly during kharif owing to Underground pipeline Drip irrigation system Recharge cavity well Fingermillet var. MR-1 (Bengaluru, Karnataka) Groundnut var. TG 37A (Arjia, Rajasthan) ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 14 CLIMATE CHANGE AND RESILIENT AGRICULTURE ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 15 its high dependency on south-west (SW) monsoon. The short duration and drought tolerant varieties identified for delayed onset of monsoon under diverse rainfall and soil types are soybean (var. JS-9560) and cotton (var. PKV-Rajat) under semi-arid (hot moist), vertisols/20 days delay in onset (Akola); fingermillet (var. MR-1, GPU- 28), ricebean (var. RBL-1), pigeonpea (var. BRG-2, TTB- 7) and fieldbean (var. HA-3, HA-4) under semi-arid, alfisols/15 days delay in onset (Bengaluru); rice (var. Gitesh, Ranjit, Dishang) and blackgram (var. Pant U-19) under perhumid, alfisols/inceptisols/ 18 days delay in onset (Biswanath Chariali); rice (var. Vandana, Sahbhagi Dhan), fingermillet (var. A-404), sorghum (var. CSV-20), sesame (var. Shekhar) and horsegram (var. Madhu, GHG- 19) under semiarid (hot dry), inceptisols/ 20 days delay in onset (Chianki); horsegram (var. AK-41, AK-42), groundnut (var. TG-37A) and sorghum (var. Pratap 1430) under semi-arid, vertisols/ 15 days delay in onset (Arjia); pearlmillet (var. GHB 558), clusterbean (var. GG 2), greengram (var. GM-4) and castor (var. GCH-7) under semi-arid/arid (hot dry), entisols/ 21 days delay in onset SK Nagar; pigeonpea (var. TS 3R), pearmillet (var. ICTP 8203), mothbean (var.