 Each KVK should have an information Centre cum Museum for the benefit of visitors and trainees to gain knowledge and information about KVK and its activities. 8. Each KVK should have modern office equipments such as computer facilities well connected on the ARIS, NICNET etc. 9. The existing KVKs, which are non-performing on account of their location in inaccessible areas, the ICAR should consider either to close or shift such KVKs to locations where they can be more useful and functional. 10. The annual workshops should be regularly organized by Zonal Coordinators. V Committee under the Chairmanship of Mr. S.S. Surjewala (1995) 1. The extension system in India needs integrated approach for transfer of technologies through single window system. 2. The frontline demonstrations need to be integrated in the KVK system. 3. Special off-campus training capsules need to be developed by ICAR institutes for up gradation of technical know-how of extension functionaries. 4. Priority to the women training for adoption of technology as their involvement in agriculture is essential. 5. Animal based programmes need to be addressed by strengthening animal science disciplines in KVKs. VI Committee on Human Resource Development through KVKs and TTCs under the Chairmanship of Dr. S.C. Mudgal (1996) The main common recommendation was that all staff recruited for KVKs must undergo orientation training before they undertake the programmes/activities of KVKs. VII Committee on streamlining the functioning of the Krishi Vigyan Kendras in the country under the Chairmanship of Acharya Ramamurti (2001) 1. The non-functional KVKs on account of their location in inaccessible areas and the infrastructure not been built may be shifted to a better place. 2. The stipulation of 20 ha of land may be scaled down to 15 ha in hilly and difficult areas. 3. The Council does not provide retirement benefits to NGOs KVK staff. It may be considered to grant permission to such KVKs for re-employment of retired persons in NGO KVKs. 4. For staff posted in remote areas KVKs, the ICAR should consider grant of compensation. 5. Non-performing KVKs should be closed down. 45 Annexures 6. Training Organizers should be given administrative power as equivalent to that of Head of Department of SAU or ICAR institute. 7. To keep abreast the staff of KVKs in latest agricultural technology, they should be sent to refresher courses regularly. 8. Each KVK should have a hot line telephone connection for answering the queries from farmers daily. 9. The KVKs should take initiative for seed multiplication, establishing quality mother plants etc. 10. News letter and other publications may be sent to all the Gram Panchayat for the linkages with KVK activities. 11. The KVK need to work as “think tank” for district planning for overall development of each district for Agriculture. VIII Committee for Independent Evaluation and Impact Assesment under the Chairmanship of Mr. J.N.L. Srivastava (2005) 1.