 They visited CIBA (Chennai), NDRI Centre, PDBC & IIHR (Bangalore), CAZRI (Jodhpur) DWR, (Karnal), etc. Participation in exhibitions at regional, national and international level: Orga- nizing exhibitions is another focal point of publicity activities of the PR Unit. The promotion of new technologies cannot be accelerated unless a climate of receptiv- ity and awareness of the importance of new technologies in the field of agricultural science are created among the farmers, scientists and public. The Unit organized exhibitions and displayed important items relating to agricultural development in an interesting manner to spread awareness of new ideas, varieties, technologies, etc and also advised the institutes on exhibition-related issues. Nearly 20 ICAR insti- tutes took part in the 14-day IITF 2001 exhibition at New Delhi (November 14-27, 2001), for the first time, ICAR organized ATIC and display-cum-sale of floricul- ture and ornamental plants in this exhibition under ICAR pavilion. Reception and Monitoring of Public Grievances: The CP&PRO functions as Staff Grievances Officer under the direct supervision of Secretary, ICAR. Neces- sary instructions are issued from time to time to all the concerned officials for speedy disposal of the grievances. To cater to the in-house grievances of the employees, the ICAR has an Internal Grievances Committee. NICNET-based Public Information and Facilitation Centre: In pursuance of Government’s commitment to bring greater transparency through better access to information, a NICNET-based Public Information and Facilitation Centre has been established jointly by the three departments of the Ministry of Agriculture - DARE/ ICAR, Department of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperation and Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying at Krishi Bhavan (Room No. 19A). The centre provides information of State and Central Government agencies, economists, con- sultants, scientists, farmers and general public. CP&PRO is the nodal officer coor- dinating with the centre. National Agricultural Science Museum: This is a new and prestigious activity of the PR Unit. A National Agricultural Science Museum is being established at the Chaudhary Devi Lal National Agricultural Science Centre in IARI Pusa Campus. The work of first phase is almost completed. The work is being carried out by the National Council of Science Museums, Kolkata in consultation with P R Unit. Af- ter completion of the second phase, this will be opened to farmers, general public, scientists and various delegations from all over the country. Dr Panjab Singh, Director-General, ICAR looking at the exhibits at the India International Trade Fair, Pragati Maidan, New Delhi Appendices Appendices Appendices Appendices Appendices 229 e:\icar.c3\jan02\02-015\02015-18.pm5 (09/10.02.02)(15/15.02.02) PART I The following subjects which fall within List I of the Sev- enth Schedule to the Constitution of India. 1.