 The Institute has entered into 120 MoUs/MoAs with individuals/ firms and I n s t i t u t i o n s . Three types of MoUs have been entered with external entities. Firstly, MoUs made with other research entities like IITs, Universities, and R e s e a r c h Success stories of ABI-CIBA entrepreneurs Indian Farming January 2020 10 interface between the Institute and individuals/firms and other entities in the form of the Agri-Business Incubation center is very much essential for promoting partnerships with entrepreneurs/start- ups. Specific activities are: A. Strengthening the process of commercialization of technology B. Handholding small and medium enterprise to develop business C. Skill upgradation D. Development of bankable projects for entrepreneurs E. Consultancy services to the industry, and NGOs F. One-stop-center for technology exposure to the entrepreneurs, industry Corresponding author's e-mail: trsciba@gmail.com. tremendous. Hence, entrepreneurs - startups to large corporates regularly approach CIBA for technological support. The ICAR- CIBA technologies and services are of five major categories: 1. Process development like the development of fish breeding protocols and practices 2. Formulation of new feed and improvements in indigenous feed technology 3. Product development automatic feeders, solar-powered equipment 4. Capacity building and training and 5. Technical services like disease diagnosis, soil and water testing, consultancy services. The institute serves multiple stakeholders and needs of the aquaculture sector, but the effective Institutes like CIBA, secondly MoUs with corporate bodies and thirdly directly with farmers/entrepreneurs. The Institute Technology Management Committee (ITMC) scrutinizes new proposals and modifications/amendments required in existing PPP arrangements. ITMC discusses and collectively takes decisions and recommends to In- charge ABI/Director for execution. For scientific brackishwater aquaculture development in the country ICAR-Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture is the nodal research and development center. The brackishwater aquaculture generates about ` 30,000 crores of foreign exchange and is a very vibrant commercial activity. Demand by the sector for the supply of quality seed, feed, chemical/biological products, diagnostic, and analytical kits is HANDBOOK OF ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Livestock sector has created a significant impact on equity in terms of employment and poverty alleviation. After staple crops, livestock sector is the second most important contributor to the agricultural economy. The producer prices of meat, eggs and milk, in India appear to be highly competitive as the domestic producer prices of these products are quite low compared to the ex-farm gate prices of major exporters in the world markets. A knowledge resource is essential to harness the potential of animal production.