 “Implementing compulsory soil testing is a strategic step toward evidence- based policymaking. It enables to monitor land health nationwide, tailor agricultural subsidies effectively, and promote sustainable farming prac­ tices” (P 60). 4. Discussion The results suggest that the agricultural credit systems must be transformed in order to improve the agricultural sector's resilience, sustainability, and productivity. To address global challenges such as climate change, food security, and rural poverty, it is necessary to establish innovative credit frameworks that prioritise inclusivity, tech­ nological advancements, and strategic policy interventions. Therefore, the discussion's outcome synthesises the key findings and insights from recent literature, providing a nuanced understanding of how agricul­ tural credit can be in accordance with sustainable development goals. The analysis and results indicate that financial literacy and training programs are crucial for overcoming the knowledge and psychological gap that restricts farmers' access to financial institutions. As participants have indicated, these programs are crucial in improving farmers' awareness of financial services, thereby enabling them to confidently navigate credit systems and make informed financial decisions. This is crucial, as Lusardi and Mitchell (2014) have highlighted. Further, acknowledging the diverse needs of the farming community, tailored credit schemes that are proposed by the participants are as essential mechanisms to provide them flexible loan terms, alternative collateral options, and targeted support for marginalized groups in agriculture. Even studies by (Tetteh et al., 2022; Thilmany et al., 2022) underline that farmers can invest more wisely in sustainable practices and tech­ nologies when credit products are tailored to fit the particular cash flow patterns and risk connected with agricultural activities, thereby increasing production and resilience. Digital technologies have increasingly influenced the accessibility of agricultural credit, as evidenced by recent advancements in the digi­ talisation of financial services. The discussion on the digitalisation of financial services for farmers reveals that it will considerably reduce processing time and transaction costs, thereby increasing the accessibility of credit to farmers in remote areas. This is in line with (Sarfo et al., 2021; Y. Wang et al., 2023) who state that digital financial services provide a scalable solution to geographical and logistical bar­ riers, enabling farmers to access credit more efficiently through mobile banking and digital wallets. Moreover, integrated digital platforms as suggested by participants that provide comprehensive solutions for financial management, market information and advisory services will empower farmers to make data-driven decisions (Ayre et al., 2019; Bhaskara & Bawa, 2021; Borrero & Mariscal, 2022).