 Detailed assessment has been made in improving crop, horticulture, animal and fish productivity; ensuring food, nutritional and livelihood security; imparting practical and theoretical agricultural education; promoting organic and low-input agriculture; protecting environment, agro-biodiversity and ecology; promoting small agri-enterprises and gender empowerment; encapsulating Gandhian thoughts on new science and technology-led development; upholding ethics in agricultural science; and harnessing local interventions for global gains in natural resources management. It also highlights the future path of ICAR in line of Mahatma’s vision of Gram Swaraj and Atma Nirbhar Bharat. We sincerely hope that the publication will be useful to the policy-makers, planners, administrators, farmers, social workers, students and the followers of Gandhiji in India and abroad. Besides helping the ICAR in reassessing and setting new path of agricultural progress, it shall provide necessary inputs to the other organizations and stakeholders in improving agriculture with the vision of Mahatma Gandhi. Editors xi acknowledgements Farmers form the bulk of India’s population and are the backbone of the country. With about 55% of India’s population dependent on agriculture for its livelihood, the welfare of farmers assumes great significance. For Gandhiji, the farmer was the central point for sustainable social order. According to him, the agriculture should be planned in such a manner that each village shall be self-sufficient in its food requirements. He asserted that the only way of bringing the progress and prosperity to India is development of rural economy, industry and skills. He wanted the village to be the central place in the national economic development with sound scientific and spiritual values. Gandhian vision of rural development is based on Antyodaya i.e., ‘the upliftment of the last man in the row’. In principle, he wanted to reconstruct a ‘harmonious, poverty-free, non-violent and self-reliant society’ on the basis of ethical principles marked by Hind Swaraj. Gandhiji insisted on the social workers to render effective service in the village. In order to do this, they must acquire sufficient theoretical as well as practical knowledge about agriculture. Though a critic of modernity, Gandhiji was in favour of technology. He opposed the inequalities and hierarchies of power and the blind subjugation of nature to man, resulting from the estrangement of technological development from morality. He wanted a peaceful and sustainable integration of men, modernity and mother-nature. In spite of tremendous progress in last decades, several challenges are posed to Indian agriculture. It is high time that we learn lessons from the past and plan out strategies, which are relevant to our times following Gandhiji’s vision, which gives us a rare insight into the future of mankind.