 Collaborators: IIT-Kharagpur, BCKV, OUAT, ORSAC, IARI, CAZRI, IGFRI, IIPR. yy Research on development and dissemination of climate resilient and cost-effective technologies for rainfed regions for improved livelihoods. Collaborators: IARI, CIAE, IISS, WALMI, CAZRI. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 22 5. Way forward The effective collaboration between ICAR and ICARDA has led to introduction of legume and cereal germplasm from the Center of Origin and Primary Diversity of the Fertile Crescent conserved at ICARDA genebank in Syria. By utilizing them, several lentil, Kabuli chickpea and barley varieties have been developed and are being grown by farmers. Although a significant progress have been made, however, dryland production system further needs to expand R4D activities as follows: yy Strengthening Pre-Breeding Programs: acquisition of more wild relative accessions of legumes and cereals and their use in pre-breeding program. yy Introduction and growing of international and special nurseries at ICARDA’s India Research Platform, and the selected materials (line/single plant) will be shared with national partners. yy Introduction of earliness and extra-earliness without yield penalty to address climate change effects (heat, drought). yy Bringing second/third crops in rice fallows needs a mission mode with fine mapping of fallow lands for suitability of various pulse/oilseed species, and demonstrating effective technologies. yy Development of site-specific varieties/production technologies based on edapho-climatic conditions and socio- economic conditions of farmers. yy As livestock is an important component, increasing availability of feed resources like Cactus, Vicia sp., pulses residues, etc. to be considered. Research on pulses should focus on high biomass. yy Training in the form of higher studies (MSc/PhD) to develop new generation of scientists under joint supervision to be strengthened. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 23 The International Centre for Research in Agroforestry (ICRAF), also known as World Agroforestry Centre (http://www.cgiar.org/), is one of the 15 research centers of CGIAR Consortium (http:// www.cgiar.org/). ICRAF is headquartered in Nairobi, Kenya, with six regional offices located in Cameroon, China, India, Indonesia, Kenya and Peru. Research is conducted in over 36 countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America. As part of its global mandate, based in New Delhi, ICRAF established the South Asia Regional Program (SARP) in 2003. SARP covers Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. It focuses on four agro ecological environments, viz., mountainous regions of Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, northeast India, Nepal; Indo-Gangetic Plains of Bangladesh, India, Nepal, Pakistan; humid coastal areas of Bangladesh, India, Maldives, Sri Lanka and semi-arid lands of India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka.