 ●Prepare Plan Budget and accordingly Annual BE and RE at Zonal Level, get approval from the competent authority and release the fund only after obtaining necessary UC/AUC, to respective KVKs through concerned host organization. 21 Recommendations ●Monitor proper utilization of funds, get periodical expenditure statements, examine the statements for errors, if any and take appropriate corrective measures as well as report to ICAR in the prescribed format. ●Accounts of NGO-KVKs should be permitted to be audited by Chartered Accountants who are empanelled with CAG/State Government concerned. ●Ensure timely release of fund to KVKs by the host organizations. State level: The responsibility of coordination and monitoring at state level will be with Directors of Extension of Agricultural Universities concerned, whereas Zonal Project Director will provide effective oversight function and advisory role in performing their responsibilities. ●State Action Plan Workshop should be conducted once in a year by the Director of Extension Education, for formulating technical programme of KVKs for effective convergence, implementation and monitoring of the scheme. ●Overseeing of KVKs is the major responsibility of Director of Extension Education of concerned Agricultural Universities in their respective jurisdiction. The specific responsibilities of Directors of Extension Education are defined below: – Technological backstopping and knowledge empowerment of staff at KVKs within the jurisdiction of University concerned, irrespective of the host Institution i.e. ICAR/NGO/ SAU others. – Monitor regular conduct of SAC meetings and implementation of its recommendations by the KVKs – Conducting periodical visits by self and concerned experts to KVKs to give required guidance and advice. – Plan and implement need based capacity development programmes for KVK staff, extension personnel and farmers. – Facilitate preparation of annual action plan, periodically review the progress of KVKs and ensure continuous flow of feedback to research system and reporting to ICAR. – Ensure establishment of infrastructure, its proper utilization and maintenance at KVKs. – Monitor instructional farms of the KVKs for the demonstration of latest technologies including farm implements and value addition and production of technological products viz. seeds, planting material, livestock, fingerlings and bio-products. – Ensure execution of Annual Action Plan through effective technical backstopping and field level monitoring. – Impact evaluation and assessment study at field level to be conducted on new technologies at state level. 22 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK District level: At district level the grantee/host institution should exercise the overall supervision on effective functioning of KVK. However, the Chief Scientist-cum-Head will be over all in charge of coordination and monitoring.