 At each stage of development, from the acquisition or utilisation of the gene/construct, to commercial seed production and actual commercialisation, these guidelines should establish fail-safe gateways that are both internal to the system, and external to it. The Committee would like to stress that while third party verification is important from the point of view of objectivity, internal checks and reviews that insist on scientific rigour, are no less important. The Committee suggests that ICAR set up an Expert Committee for evolving such guidelines, and have them issued at the earliest. 8.12. ICAR must abide by agreements signed by its officers/scientists which obviously cannot be treated as "personal" (Please refer to Para 9.02). In case there is any doubt, ICAR should seek legal opinion. Equally important is that the concerned officers/scientists while signing an MTA should ensure that related IPR issues, if any, are not too complicated to hinder commercialization, in view of the fact that ICAR is fully involved in applied research. 16 OTHER ISSUES 9.00 The last term of reference to the Committee is to report on any other issue arising from, or identical to, the issue under examination. 9.01 Conflicts of interest should be avoided when ICAR scientists are members of regulatory bodies. Instructions regarding this need to be issued, as already stated in para 5.09. 9.02 The cry1Ac gene used in the development of BNBt was developed by Dr. I. Altosaar of the University of Ottawa. It was obtained by Dr. R. P. Sharma, former Director, NRCPB by signing a Material Transfer Agreement (MTA) with University of Ottawa. In 2006, as informed by Dr. Kumar, he had tried to negotiate a freedom to operate agreement with Dr. Altosaar. For reasons that are not clear, this did not materialize. At a meeting in 2006, it was surprisingly decided by ICAR that Dr. Sharma had signed on the MTA in his "personal capacity", and that a freedom to operate agreement was not necessary at that stage, and that henceforth the construct would be referred to as a "NRCPB construct". Copy of the minutes of this meeting is at Annexure-XIII; Pgs.125-127). In the opinion of the Committee this is a violation of the MTA signed with Dr. Altosaar and, to say the least, unethical. ICAR should even now take appropriate legal opinion and ensure that a freedom to operate agreement is in place for various genes obtained from Dr. Altosaar or other sources. Meanwhile, ICAR should compile information on the crops in which these genes are being incorporated, and legal opinion on infringement of IPR, or otherwise should - govern decisions regarding further work on these genes in NARS. 9.03 The MTA with University of Ottawa stipulates that either Dr. Altosaar, or one of his group members, should be an author in publications that arise from use of the cry genes provided by him. In this regard, Drs. Sonti and Siddiqi were informed by D·r. Kumar that Dr.