 Poor soil fertility. On an average annual rainfall of Jharkhand is 1289 mm and it varies from 1285 to 1308 mm between different sub-zones, out of which around 85 per cent is received during four monsoon months. The land is undulating and farming situations are based on types of land i.e. upland (Tanr I& II), medium land (Tanr II and Don III) and low land (Don II and Don I). Out of the cultivable area of 3.8 million ha. 80% of the area is drought prone and about 7% area is flood prone. The highly variable rainfall in Jharkhand mainly occurs during the Southwest monsoon period between June to September with the number of rainy days varying between 60 and 80. The state is one of the largest producers of the mineral resources of the country spreading over majority of the districts with a paradox to be among the bottom lying states in terms ofdevelopment. An area of 24.4 lakh hectares (30.61%) is under agricultural wastelands thathave to be beneficially utilized for rural development. At present there is one agricultural university (Birsa Agricultural University) with one each of agriculture, veterinary and one forestry colleges. The State government has decided to establish Agriculture Engineering College at BAU, Ranchi; Dairy College at Godda; Horticulture College at Chaibasa; College at Garhwa; Veterinary College at Jamtara; Fisheries College at Gumla which will increase the availability of technical manpower in the State. KVKs are present in all 24 districts of Jharkhand for technology assessment and refinement and demonstrations of locally relevant production technologies; capacity building of the farmers and other stakeholders in the target area and now set to work in close in association with ATMA for technology transfer. 237 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Table. Physiographic condition of the state Agro-climatic zone Characteristics/ Challenges Districts Eastern Plateau & Hills Region-VII Rain-fed agriculture, Moisture stress, drought and Soil acidity, Iron toxicity, low SRRs, non availability of electricity, high population growth, poor road, poor Input delivery and communication infrastructure Orissa , Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and West Bengal Agro-climatic sub zones Central and North Eastern Plateau Sub Zone IV i. Erratic and uneven distribution of rainfall ii. Coarse textured soils, crust formation on the soil surface iii. Low water retention capacity of the soil. iv. Lack of safe disposal of runoff and drying of tanks. Bokaro, Deoghar, Dhanbad, Dumka, Giridih, Godda, Jamtara, Khunti, Koderma, Hazaribagh, Pakur, Ramgarh, Ranchi & Sahebganj Western Plateau Sub Zone V i. Erratic/ uneven distribution of rainfall ii. Low water retentive capacity of the soil. Chatra, Garhwa, Gumla, Latehar, Lohardaga, Palamau and Simdega South Eastern Plateau Sub Zone VI i. Uneven distribution of rainfall ii. Low water holding capacity, eroded soils iii. Shallow soil depth iv. Poor soil fertility.