 As the fourth crop, he grows papaya in the month of April, which gives fruit above the net. After digging of ginger in September-October, potato is also planted in the month of October as a fifth crop. During this time, he sells ginger (as an off-season crop) at a higher price, that is ` 60 to 100 per kg, in the market. All of these crops were grown on wire constructed (MANDAP) which are fixed parallels on the bamboos, having a distance of 1.5 feet from each other. So, in this way, by growing of four to five crops together, then it can have 3-4 times more earning. Total expenditure on bamboo and wire-made structure, running up to five to six years, happened to be ` 1,50,000/acre, that is, ` 30,000/year. Total cost of cultivation of crops was ` 2,05,000 for cultivation of all crops, viz. Ginger, Ivy gourd (Kundru), Leafy vegetables (Amaranthus/Spinach/ Coriander/Fenugreek etc.), Papaya and Potato per year per acre. The net income obtained, thus, was found to be ` 4,95,000/acre with 3.41 BCR. Besides income, four-layer multiple cropping model gave other benefits also, such as, reduced insect-pest, no effect of climate change (i.e. from frost cold and heat waves etc.), and less requirement of manures due to multi crops being grown at the same time. A view of multi crops in four layer farming system A view of leafy vegetables before emerging of ginger crop in four layer farming system Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 Indian Horticulture 82 Hydroponic vegetables: A sustainable food production system and profitable venture under climate change Humans require food, water, and living space in order to survive. These do not exist in endless abundance, making humans dependent upon the optimization of land area. Considering that world population is increasing and will reach about 9 billion by 2050, it is evident that food security is one of the pivotal themes of the new millennium & reasonably, the most urgent challenge for the agricultural sector. Food productivity of the current system of cultivation as well as water harvesting are the major concerns. Also, there is a progressive drop of fertile soil surface and quality water due to present trend of global climate change/ uncertainty, environmental pollution and urbanization phenomena, which greatly complicates the context. Infestation by the pathogens under traditional growing system further limits the potential crop production. Thus, farming has to become more productive as well as protective with some advance growing technique, especially under changing climatic situation and areas difficult to cultivate must be adopted. Hydroponics, particularly in the form of vertical farming is a wonderful option that provide the opportunity to grow anywhere with least use of land and water, and without any fear of insect, pest, diseases and other natural calamities. Also, due to the changing global economic scenario, getting jobs in public sector is arduous and private entrepreneurship is a lucrative option.