 Name of the Magazines Annual Subscription in (`) (US$)* • Indian Farming (English Monthly) • Indian Horticulture (English Bi-Monthly) • Kheti (Hindi Monthly) • Phal Phool (Hindi Bi-Monthly) 300 150 300 150 50 30 While placing order, the name and address with email, may be given in block letter. The Post Office, District, State and PIN code may also be indicated. When bulk order are to be executed through railway parcels the name of the Railway Station & name of road transport company may also be given. A. Payment should be made through Bank Draft or Net Banking. The remittance may be drawn in favour of the "Business Manager, ICAR, New Delhi". B. Payment through online (RTGS/NEFT). PFMS Unique Code: DLND00001925 (for Govt. Department & ICAR Institutes) *Foreign price mentioned are inclusive of postal and forwarding charges by Air Mail. Note: Please furnish the details of the payment with your name & address, NEFT/RTGS number, date, amount in R/US$, Bank name and address alongwith details of your order of Books and Magazines/Journals subscription to the E-mail: businessuniticar@gmail.com Contact: Business Manager, Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Telephone: 011-25843657 (D) 011-25841993 (Ext. 657 & 220) Website: www.icar.org.in  Indian Horticulture 66 

July–August 2021 65 web link-https://icar.gov.in/ Indian Horticulture 66 Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture was established as the Central Mango Research Station in 1975 and since then has been working on the development of technologies leading to higher yields of quality mangoes and providing solutions to the problems faced by the mango industry. By establishing the world's largest mango repository, the Institute has made a significant contribution to mango germplasm conservation. The institute released Ambika and Arunika regular bearing red coloured hybrids, suitable for high density orcharding. Thousands of hectares have been rejuvenated using Institute's technology. A protocol for sea transport of Dashehari mangoes was developed in collaboration with APEDA. Farmers are following the ICAR-CISH disease and pest management recommendations on more than 32 thousand hectares. More than 1.5 lakh grafts of mango varieties were provided to KVKs, SAUs, the Horticulture Department, and other stakeholders as core planting material for the establishment of mother blocks. The institute is working to refine existing technology for improving productivity of senile and old orchards, in addition to developing varieties and technology for high- density planting, canopy, water, and nutrient management. Diversification is being attempted to make the mango orchard system more profitable, and disease and pest control approaches with reduced pesticide use are being developed to improve the ecosystem of intensive mango growing orchards.