 MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 102 CNG fuelled tractor for agriculture and haulage operation Compressed natural gas (CNG) can substitute gasoline or diesel fuel fully or partially. A three-cylinder tractor diesel engine was modified to run using 100% CNG. The reduction in compression ratio was reduced and spark plugs were accurately placed. A CNG gas mixture was mounted on the carburettor to supply proper air-CNG mixture. The engine was successfully operated using 100% CNG under no-load condition. The CNG consumption in the field condition without load was recorded as 3.07 kg/h. Upgraded pyrolysis process for conversion of pine needle pyrolysis bio-oil into liquid bio-fuel The upgraded pyrolysis process for conversion of pine needle pyrolysed bio-oil into liquid bio-fuel was developed. Pine needles are the residue of pine (Pinus roxburghii) forest and a major cause of forest fire in the North Western hills of India. Experiments were conducted to convert pine needles into bio-oil and biochar through catalytic pyrolysis process. The catalyst ZSM-5 and CaO were used with pine needles biomass in a ratio of 10, 20 and 30%. Process parameters such as pyrolysis temperature, gas flow rate, vapour cooling temperature, heating rate were optimized by using central composite design (CCD) in response surface methodology (RSM). A maximum 24% bio-oil was recovered under optimized condition for ZSM catalyst whereas 13% bio oil recovery was obtained with CaO. Torrefaction system of 200 kg biomass capacity A pilot scale torrefaction system having 200 kg biomass capacity was developed. Torrefaction of biomass is needed for easier transport and longer storage as material becomes dry, brittle and hydrophobic due to this process. The unit is equipped with heating elements of 9 kW capacity and has provision for removal of torrefied biomaterial by tilting the reactor. Torrefaction experiments were carried out on paddy straw. The recovery varied from 90–98%. Production of high porous carbon from pigeon pea High porous carbon was prepared using pigeon pea stalk in two stage activation. In first step, the pigeon pea stalk was carbonized at 300–450°C in annular core biochar reactor. The carbonized pigeon pea was activated in second step under carbon dioxide environment at different temperatures. The maximum iodine value was 720. The total carbon in the produced activated carbon varied from 78–85%. The average activation energy of activated pigeon pea stalk was estimated as 84 kJ/mol. Assessment of carbon fluxes in rainfed cotton ecosystem An Eddy covariance flux tower along with a suite of meteorological sensors has been established at the experimental farm of ICAR-Central Institute of Cotton Research (ICAR-CICR), Nagpur, Maharashtra, India. CO2 fluxes between the terrestrial rainfed cotton ecosystem in the Black Soil Region and the atmosphere was measured throughout the cotton season from mid June 2020 to last week of 2021.