 Indira Gandhi Krishi Vishwavidyalaya, Raipur reported increase household incomes by 50% as the system diversified revenue from fish, poultry, and crops. Fish farming boosted yields by 35% due to improved pond fertility from livestock manure. Coconut-livestock-fish farming system: In Tamil Nadu’s rainfed regions, farmers have adopted an integrated system combining coconut farming, dairy cattle, and fish farming. Fish ponds are established between coconut trees, and cows are kept for milk production. The manure from cows is used to fertilize both fish ponds and coconut trees. Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) observed increase in coconut yields by 20% due to the nutrient-rich water from fish ponds and the manure applied to the soil. Fish farming contributed to a 35% increase in farm income, and the integration of dairy added an additional 25% in income from milk. Aquaculture-paddy-poultry farming system: In the coastal rainfed areas of Andhra Pradesh, a new system integrating paddy cultivation, aquaculture, and poultry has been implemented. Poultry sheds are built near fish ponds, and poultry waste is used to fertilize fish ponds and paddy fields. The fish waste and nutrient- rich water are used to irrigate the paddy fields. National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB) reported increase in fish yields by 40%, with farmers reporting higher productivity due to the organic fertilizer from poultry. Paddy crop yields increased by 25% due to nutrient- rich water and reduced reliance on synthetic fertilizers, while poultry rearing boosted household income by 30% through steady sales of eggs and meat. Silvopasture-livestock-fishery farming system: In the rainfed regions of Madhya Pradesh, farmers have adopted a silvopasture system (integrating trees with pastures), livestock rearing, and fish farming. Fast- growing trees like Leucaena are planted alongside fodder grasses, which provide food for livestock, while ponds are dug for fish farming. ICAR-Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute (IGFRI) reported improvement in livestock health, leading to a 30% increase in milk production, as animals had better access to nutritious fodder. Fish farming in the ponds increased overall farm income by 35%, with farmers selling both milk and fish. Livestock, fisheries and millet farming system: In Odisha’s rainfed tribal areas, farmers have adopted an integrated system combining millet cultivation, livestock rearing (goats, cows), and fish farming. This system has been introduced as part of a millet promotion initiative aimed at improving food security while integrating livestock and fisheries. Odisha Millet Mission observed improvement in millet yields by 30%, with better soil fertility due to the use of livestock manure. Goat rearing provided an additional income of 40% per household, along with milk from cows. Fish farming contributed to a 25% increase in household income, making the system more resilient to climate variability.