 ŠŠ Broodstock can be developed by stocking wild caught fishes of 500 g-1 kg in a 10 tonne Recirculation Aquaculture System (RAS) @ 1kg/m3 and rearing for a period of 4-5 months. ŠŠ Brood fishes are fed ad libitum with fishes like sardine, mackerel or anchovies, and squid supplemented with vitamins and minerals. They also have to be fed intermittently with compounded semi-moist feed at the rate of 2% of body weight to improve quality of egg produced. ŠŠ The fish is a protogynous hermaphrodite and sexes cannot be easily recognized by external appearance. Spawning occurs without any hormonal injection in re-circulatory aquaculture system (RAS). ŠŠ Spawning takes place in early morning. Fertilized eggs are of dia 700-740 µ, and are transparent, pelagic and non-adhesive in nature. The newly hatched larva measures 1.35- 1.54 mm. ŠŠ Mouth opens on 3rd day of post-hatch and the larval rearing is done in green-water medium (Nanochloropsis salina, Isochrysis galbana, Chaetoceros calcitrans in the ratio of 3:1:1). Nauplii of copepod species like Acartia sp. and Pseudodiaptomus serricaudatus are used as first food. From day 5th to 16th, rotifers at density of 4-6 nos/ml are provided as food. ŠŠ Artemia can be given from 15thdph onwards and weaned on pellet feed from 20 dph (200- 400 µ). Larvae become benthic from 25-30 dph onwards. ŠŠ Juveniles attain the size 27-28 mm and 0.26-0.28 g in 45-50 dph. ŠŠ The technology is being extended in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. Compiled by: Dr M.K. Anil More information: Director, ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Kochi, Kerala Email: director.cmfri@icar.gov.in 46 Grass Carp Ctenopharyngodon idella (Valenciennes, 1844) ŠŠ Silver carp is native to Asia, from China to Eastern Siberia. It is cultured all over the world due to its compatibility in polyculture system. ŠŠ Breeding in captivity is attained through artificial inducement, for which brooders of 2+ year- class are raised in earthen ponds at biomass of 1500-2000 kg/ha. ŠŠ Sexes are distinct during spawning season with females having bulged abdomen and fleshy genital pore with soft pectoral fins. Males are slender, having rough pectoral fins and ooze milky-white milt from vent on pressing the belly. ŠŠ Captive spawning is undertaken either in hapa or in circular hatchery. In both cases, a sex ratio of 1:1 is maintained. Brooders are induced by injecting either pituitary extract or commercially available synthetic Gonadotropin hormones (CH). ŠŠ Pituitary extract to females is administered in two doses; 1st dose of 2-3 mg/kg and 2nd dose of 6-8 mg/kg body weight at an interval of 6-8 h, whereas males are given a single dose of 2-3 mg/kg at the time of 2nd dose to females. However, in case of CH, a single dose of 0.5-0.6 ml/kg to female and 0.2-0.3 ml/kg to male is given. ŠŠ Stripping is done when kept in hapa, but breeds naturally in spawning tanks of circular hatchery. Fecundity of this species is around 1.5 lakh/kg body weight of female.