 ● Soybean at JNKVV (Jabalpur), maize (cobs) at WTCER, groundnut at Ranchi and pigeonpea at Darisai appeared suitable options for substitution of rice in upland situation. Oilseeds-based production system ● In castor, IPM module involving wilt-resistant Jyothy (DCS 9), removal of alternate hosts, keeping bird perches, hand picking of egg masses and early and late stage larvae of Spodoptera litura, spraying of Monocrotphos (0.05%) and Carbendazim (0.05%) against castor semilooper and Botrytis, respectively, were found promising in keeping pest and disease incidence below the threshold level. Pulses-based production system ● The pulses treated with neem seed powder showed a better plant growth in the nematode-infested soils. ● A new inoculant technology was developed in the form of liquid Rhizobium inoculant (LRI) to overcome the problems of short-life, poor quality, high contamination and inconsistent field performances. The LRI was found to be superior to the carrier-based Rhizobium inoculant (CRI) in quality, shelf- life, field efficacy and commercial viability. ● In an on-farm experiment on integrated nutrient management, the results have shown promise. ● Integrated rice-fish-piggery-duckery farming system showed good adoption among tribal farmers ● Zycloz @ 10 mg/kg body weight successfully controlled nasal schistomomiosis in cross-bred cattle ● Groundnut + pigeonpea (4 : 1) proved promising in rainfed uplands of Orissa ● A new inoculant technology in form of liquid Rhizobium inoculant developed DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 196 ● ●● ●● Three more subprojects approved, making a total of 41 ● ●● ●● Exploration surveys resulted in collection of 24,599 germplasm of different crops ● Two GMS hybrids in cotton, 2 varieties and 1 hybrid in sorghum and four single-cross, early hybrids in maize released ● Standard protocols established for isolation of protease inhibitor proteins from chickpea, cowpea and pigeonpea ● Putative molecular markers identified for Lr 19, Lr 32 and Lr 28 genes ● In FLDs 5,250 plants of litchi, 928 of mango, 1,000 seedlings of acid lime and other crops produced for distribution among farmers ● M 35-1 sorghum showed high regeneration capacity in tissue culture – Balanced nutrition with or without inorganics resulted in higher yield of soybean, gram and lentil at the farmers’ fields than farmers’ practice. – Integrated nutrient management in soybean as well as in rice showed significant yield improvement over farmers’ practice. Cotton-based production system ● Efforts were made to promote quality of Gossypium arboreum having productivity at par with G. hirsutum and tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses. In trials conducted on marginal farmers’ fields, G. arboreum PA 255 showed 67% higher seed-cotton yield over G. hirsutum NH 452 and 127% over hybrid NHH 44. ● Broad bed and furrow (BBF) system proved superior to flat bed (FB) system of planting for seed-cotton yield.