38, respectively. The dialysis method revealed a Fickian diffusion pattern for the release of conjugated molecules; for encapsulated Ag- cinnamaldehyde (EAgC), a maximum release of 85% was observed at pH 8.50 after 6 h, whereas for encapsulated Ag- thymol (EAgT), the maximum release was 95% at ‘Can-CoV-2 ELISA Kit’- A recombinant protein-based indirect ELISA kit for detection of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 in canines A recombinant nucleocapsid protein (NP) based indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (iELISA) kit was developed for detection of antibodies against SARS- CoV-2 in canines. A codon-optimized NP was expressed in E. coli and 46 kDa recombinant protein was purified and characterized. The rNP showed reactivity with the antibody against SARS-CoV-2 by western blotting. The rNP protein also showed reactivity in ELISA for detection of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. The developed assay was tested for the detection of antibodies in serum samples collected from canines from different clinical setups and tested on serum samples from the pre-covid period. While none of the 30 pre-covid samples tested positive for the SARS-CoV-2 antibodies, the 1,519 serum samples tested from canines collected in 2021 showed a positivity of 42.53% at the RPP value of 25%. The assay has also been validated with the gold test i.e. serum neutralization assay and has been found to be 95.66% sensitive and 93% specific. The kit was formally released by the Hon’ble Minister of Agriculture on 9th June 2022. Can-CoV-2 ELISA Kit pH 7.40 after 7 h. The HPLC-mediated release kinetic data revealed a maximum release of 80% for EAgC at pH 8.0 and 87% for EAgT at pH 7.40, both at 6 h. In vitro antimicrobial activity of the encapsulated compounds (EAgC and EAgT) exhibited a 2-fold increase when compared to the conjugated compounds (AgC and AgT). Besides, EAgC and EAgT were variably stable, when exposed to various physicochemical conditions (high- end temperatures, protease enzymes, cationic salts, and pH). All the tested encapsulated leads appeared to be safe (secondary cell line- based MTT assay and commensal gut lactobacilli). Later, the in vitro time-kill kinetic assay of encapsulated leads revealed a complete elimination of MDR-EAEC (extracellular) and MDR- NTS (in HEp- 2 cell lines) strains by 120 min and 12 h, respectively. In vivo antimicrobial activity in G. mellonella larvae, LD50 dose of 1×106 CFU/larvae was determined for MDR-EAEC strains and MDR-NTS strains by probit regression model. Larval studies exhibited increased survival rates, declined bacterial counts, and LDH activity which concurred with the histopathological findings demonstrating the potential antibacterial effect of the identified leads. An LD50 dose of 1×106 CFU/ml and 1 × 108 CFU/ml was determined in Swiss albino mice, by MDR-EAEC strains and MDR-NTS strains, respectively. The bacterial counts (EAEC and NTS) were reduced significantly among treatment groups.