 When it reaches the retail store it is displayed in trays and consumers take it physically. Here packaging is not happening as in other products which had a negative impact on the customer as there is no information available about the production process, genuineness of organic nature of the produce which has a slightly lower preference for consumers. Price The pricing factor is highly influenced by the market and so there is high influence of demand and supply which will have a fluctuating impact. The system of value addition centres and collection centres are good enough to address the product process quality and timely supply management of all agri-produce. But the results of the survey shows that the value addition centres taken for survey does not have state of the art infrastructure like grading and packing line, cold storage, ripening chamber, cold chain logistics which create an awkward situation while fixing price and either the consumer is affected with a higher price or the farmer is affected with a lower price. So the perceptions of consumers as well as farmers are not satisfactory when we analyse pricing factor. Apart from this, all organic fruits and vegetables are priced higher by these value addition centres and so the customers find it difficult to digest. Place (distribution) The place or distribution is one of the important attribute of marketing mix. Fruits and vegetables are filled in crates and transported in trucks, to avoid damages while in transit. Other packing methods as per the requirement of the customer are also considered rarely. Timely availability and adequate supply are considered as the most desirable features in the marketing of agricultural produce. To sustain in the market, it is essential to ensure the supply at right time and right place. The perception of the farmers here in this attribute is that they don’t have any facility to transport so they depend on the collection centre vehicle and they just load it according to the order received. While the value addition centres will take the produce from the farm gate and bring to consolidation point and segregate and supply to different retail and wholesale points within a time frame of 24 hours. Even this requires proper planning and the lack of infrastructure is really creating problems in better price discovery for the farmers. The consumers on the other hand feel that the produce is reaching stores after a day and most of them are moderately happy on the freshness and quality of the produce received; but as the products are organic in nature they are ready to accept it even at a premium price. The lack of a professional supply chain creates issues in consistent supply. Promotion Another important attribute of marketing mix which contributes to the value chain is promotion.