 Trilochan Mohapatra Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR Government of India Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi ix preface India is celebrating the 150th birth anniversary of Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, the ‘Mahatma’, ‘Father of the Nation’. He was a leader, politician, saint, philosopher, thinker, writer, social reformer and educationist who worked for the masses and with the masses. His plain living and high thinking inspired millions of people in India and abroad. Gandhiji devoted his life for upliftment of the poor, downtrodden, untouchables and the last man of the society. With the struggle and efforts of Gandhiji, the “dumb millions” found their voice; the disinherited recovered their heritage and the disarmed won a great battle with moral force. Truthfulness and non-violence were the corner stones of his thinking, philosophy and personality. The whole world celebrates the United Nations International Day of Non-violence on October 2nd each year, the Mahatma’s birthday, to pay homage and respect to this great man. To the Mahatma, true independence meant wiping every tear from the face of every Indian. He wanted the village to be the central place in the national economic development with sound scientific and spiritual values. He firmly believed that “India lives and will live in her villages, not in towns; in huts, not in palaces. If village perishes, India will perish too’’. He asserted that the only way of bringing the progress and prosperity to India is development of rural economy, industry and skills. For Gandhiji, the farmer was the central point for development and sustainable social order. Farmers form the bulk of India’s population and are the backbone of the country. Majority of the India’s population depend on agriculture and associated occupations such as cattle farming, dairying, poultry and piggery. He observed that a farmer’s life is necessarily one of cooperation, not competition. He wanted the state’s support to farmers should be directed at transforming them to become a vibrant self-reliant, and not to make them dependent on the state. Gandhiji recommended co-operative farming, which would save labour, capital and tools and provide employment to all adult villagers and increase production. He said, ‘we must attempt to prevent further fragmentation of land and encourage people to take to co-operative farming’. According to him, the agriculture of a village should be planned in such a manner that each village shall be self-sufficient in its food requirements. Gandhiji insisted on the social workers to render effective service in the village, for which they must acquire sufficient theoretical as well as practical knowledge about agriculture. The Mahatma had a noble dream of making Indian farming remunerative, self-reliant, sustainable and nature- friendly. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), since its inception, has been working to realize the dreams of the Mahatma and has made significant contributions in achieving those.