 KVKs have emerged as the key institutional system at the district level for technological backstopping in agriculture and allied sectors. KVK is the fulcrum of the district level coordination between various implementing agencies and programmes like ATMA, line Departments, on-going schemes/ programs, Gram Sabha members, Panchayat institutions, other Government and NGO players in the field of extension. KVKs serve as a Knowledge and Resource Centre of agricultural technologies for supporting initiatives of public, private and voluntary sectors in improving the agricultural economy of the district. The KVKs are funded by ICAR but the host institutions are State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) Central Agricultural Universities (CAUs), ICAR institutes, Deemed Universities (DUs), State Governments, Public Sector Undertakings (PSU), Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) and Other Educational Institutions (OEI). This cooperative endeavour embodies the coming together of various stakeholders and their approaches for delivery of frontline extension services at the grassroot level within the reach of farmers. The KVKs were established to improve the technical literacy of farmers including farm-women on the principle of ‘learning by doing’ and ‘teaching by doing’. Also, the KVKs have been recognized as effective institutional links between agricultural research and development departments in the country. The KVKs carry out on-farm testing of technologies to identify its location specificity under various micro- farming situations; frontline demonstrations of well proven technologies for demonstrating production potential at the farmers’ fields; training of farmers, farm women, rural youth and extension personnel for capacity development. The KVKs produce quality seed, planting material, bio-agents, livestock strains, organize various extension interventions, identify and document farm innovations. KVKs also generate awareness about improved technologies and developmental programmes by organising Kisan Mela (Farmers’ Fair), field days, seminars, workshops, and farmers’ exposure visits to different institutions. The KVKs have emerged as a unique institutional mechanism to function as a Knowledge and Resource Centre and address capacity development needs of stakeholders. 6. Mahatma’s Vision for Self-reliance India requires about 32 Mt of pulses by 2030 at an annual growth rate of 4.2% to meet the ICMR recommended per capita dietary intake. Large-scale 163 technology application by KVKs contributed to self-reliance in Pulses production. Pulses are climate sensitive crops predominantly grown under rainfed situations, in marginal soils under resource constraints. Ensuring recommended daily availability of pulses per capita has always remained a challenge. ICAR took up implementation of cluster frontline demonstrations (3.5 lakhs) in farmers’ fields across the country through 590 KVKs.