 In India, crop diversification is often considered a shift away from less profitable crops toward more profitable crops and from traditionally grown less remunerative crops to more remunerative crops. Crop diversification aims to provide farmers more options for growing a range of crops in climate- resilient areas and reducing the risk of crop failure due to drought or excess rains. Crop diversification is necessary for reducing risks associated with yield, market and prices; arresting the degradation of natural resources and the environment; and attaining national goals like employment generation, self-reliance in critical crop products and for earning foreign exchange. During the last two-three decades, a shift was noticed in the consumption pattern, wherein the food consumption of cereals has declined in favour of a more varied and nutritious diet of fruits, vegetables, milk, fish, meat and poultry products. The argument is that farmers must be in a position to produce high value crops and with the increase in commercialization, should also be able to maintain the diversity in the cropping pattern to reduce the risk of production losses. Crop diversification and growing of large number of crops are practised in dryland areas to reduce the risk factor of crop failures due to weather aberrations. Approaches of diversified cropping systems In All India Coordinated Research Project for Dryland Agriculture (AICRPDA), the crop substitution concept was evolved in which the performance of various new crops was evaluated vis-a-vis traditional crops. For example, in Vertisols of Bellary, sorghum was efficient than cotton. The cropping intensity could be increased considerably depending on the soil type and moisture availability period. However, the duration of the crop cultivars influenced the selection of a cropping system. Hence, the research clearly brought out that in high rainfall (> 1,000 mm) regions of Odisha, Eastern Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, a second crop could be grown in the residual moisture after a 90 days duration variety of upland rice than 120 days duration. Similarly, in the Vertisols of Malwa (Madhya Pradesh) and Vidarbha (Maharashtra), a change of 140 or 150 days sorghum cultivar to about 90 or 100 days cultivars provided an opportunity to grow chickpea or safflower in sequence. Double cropping was possible only in areas receiving more than 750 mm rainfall with a soil moisture storage capacity of more than 200 mm.