 • The proposed methodology, as indicated in Table 1, will cover performance evaluation in terms of dates of completion of targets (timeliness), physical and financial achievements in terms of numbers and allocation of funds. Objetive 1: With respect to ‘New, complementary institutional support to enhance agricultural research and higher education for addressing emerging issues’ this Department has envisaged establishment of three new institutions under ICAR and two central universities to promote research and higher education in agriculture. The following actions/success indicators are envisaged: In relation to the Action point Establishment of a National Institute on Abiotic Stress Management at Baramati (Maharashtra) the EFC approval was conveyed in February 2009. In the target period, it is envisaged to make the instate functional. This includes two success indicators, namely, on time approval of layout plan/ initiation of building works; and appointment/ re-deployment of staff (joining of new staff). The target is to complete pre-processes and initiate works by 30.9.2010 and to initiate appointment/redeployment of requisite staff. The trend value is not indicated under the columns 2007-08 and 2008-09 as this a new initiative beginning with effect from 2.12.2008; for which the CCEA approval of EFC was conveyed in February 2009. In relation to the Action pointEstablishment of a new Central Agricultural University in the North Eastern Hill Region at Barapani/ Shillong (Meghalaya) it is envisaged to prepare and submit EFC Document to Appraisal Agencies by March 2010. Since, this is also a new initiative, the trend lines for FY 07-08 and 08-09 are obviously left blank. The project value for FY 10-11 pertains to approval and appointment of Vice Chancellor and in the FY 11-12 this pertains to pre-processing and commencement of works. In relation to the Action pointEstablishment of a new CentralAgriculturalUniversity in Bundelkhand Region at Jhansi (Uttar Pradesh), the parameters and proposed measurement methodology for the success indicators will be identical as above. In relation to the Action point Establishment of National Institute on Biotic Stress Management, Raipur (Chhattisgarh), this is also a new initiative and, therefore, the trend lines for FY 07-08 and 08-09 are not shown. However, the EFC clearance is in process and is envisaged to be completed by 30.6.2010. In the FY 10- 11, it is envisaged to complete the process of appointment of Director and also initiate appointment/deployment of other staff as well as the infrastructural development process. During FY 11-12, it is envisaged that the institute will be fully functional. In relation to the Action Establishment of Indian Institute of Agricultural Biotechnology, Ranchi (Jharkhand) the parameters and proposed measurement methodology for the success indicators will be identical as above.