3% under farmer’s practice (50 mm irrigation at an interval of 8 days and 200 kg N/ha in two equal splits at planting and 26 days after planting) during 2030, 2050 and 2080 future climate scenario of temperature and CO2 regime, respectively. Aquacrop simulation model for forecasting the potato productivity under changing climatic conditions: It was observed that potato tuber yield increased with rate of water application from 50 to 150% of ETref under both mulch and no mulch condition. Paddy straw mulching (@ 5 t/ha) led to maximum increase in tuber yield under most water- limited environment (28.3% higher), whereas under non-limiting water condition, yield gain was only 4.3%. Among the dynamic plant parameters, plant height under paddy straw mulch was significantly higher (p<0.05) as compared to control during early as well as late tuber bulking phases. Intercropping in elephant foot yam: Organic package of practices for intercropping elephant foot yam with vegetables such as cucumber and amaranth comprising FYM, poultry manure, vermicompost, neem cake, groundnut cake and PGPR were developed. The equivalent yield of elephant foot yam corm was highest when intercropped with cucumber under 75% organic + 25% inorganic (28.28 t/ha) in the first year amaranth under 100% organic (33.29 t/ha) in the second year. Fertigation in taro: Fertigation technique in taro 2 Fruits/Cluster 2 Fruits/Cluster Control Control Apple cultivar Super Chief Apple cultivar Gala Redium ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 80 CROP MANAGEMENT was developed and evaluated. The developed tool’s average collecting capacity was determined to be 38.81 kg/h with < 2.5% debris. Development of Decision Support Systems for onion cultivation : “Onion Crop Advisor” mobile application—a comprehensive tool was designed and developed. The mobile application offers a variety of features to support onion farmers. It provides text and video-based advisories, giving farmers valuable guidance and recommendations on various aspects of onion cultivation. These advisories cover topics ranging from seed sowing to harvesting and post-harvest operations. Furthermore, the application includes blogs and a crop calendar, keeping farmers informed about the latest happenings, events, and programs. This ensures that farmers stay updated with relevant information and stay connected to the larger farming community. The mobile application also serves as a decision support system, offering tools and features that help farmers manage nutrients, pests, and diseases effectively. It provides recommendations and solutions based on scientific research and best practices, empowering farmers to make the right choices for their crops necessary for successful onion farming. in cashew. Observations revealed species of bee such as Braunsapis spp., Apis cerana indica (Indian bee), Pseudapis oxybeloides, Ceratina spp., Tetragonula sp. etc are common pollinators in Puttur, Karnataka region.