 Mahatma receiving a coconut before going for Bhajan Session in Sevagram Ashram 17 identified based on different horticultural traits including colour of flakes and organoleptic values. In this effort, a novel jackfruit tree was identified from field of Mr. S.S. Paramesha, Tumkur district, Karnataka, which fruits during May-July with average fruit weight of 2.44 kg per fruit. Flakes are attractive and coppery red in colour with sweet and firm weighing 24.5 geach and TSS of 30.0 0B. Phytochemical analysis revealed high carotenoids (4.43 mg per 100g) and lycopene content (1.12 mg/100g). Total Flavonoids and phenols, antioxidant activity was also more compared to yellow and white coloured flakes indicating its potential as health promoting and functional food. This variety was named as Siddu Jack. This variety identified by ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, was given wide publicity through mass media, research journals, official web sites and by organising jackfruit diversity fairs. A model for commercialization in 2017 was created, after recognizing and honouring the farmer for conserving this variety as a custodian of Genetic Diversity. The farmer was also trained in propagation techniques for mass propagation of quality plants. Revenue generation is shared between the Licensor (jackfruit farmer) in such a way that 75% of the earning would go to the farmer and 25% would go to the Institute. He is currently producing the Siddu jackfruit plants and has distributed more than 25000 saplings to the farmers and earned a gross income of Rupees twenty-five lakhs, within two-year period because of the handholding by ICAR. Similarly, this participatory breeding researchapproach along with local farmers resulted in identification of another elite 12-year-old seedling jack tree from Shri Ravindra’s field in Tumkur district of Karnataka with attractive deep coppery red coloured flakes possessing high carotenoid content. In recent years, several entrepreneurs have come forward to commercialize jackfruit products. Hence, identification of such locally adapted types would increase the area and production considerably. Further, it provides farmers a chance of additional livelihood opportunity. 3.1.2. Tamarind for improving rural livelihood Tamarind is another important crop like jack and has adapted itself in India over several centuries. Tamarind is widely adaptable and suitable for marginal lands due to its large tap root system, which protects it from strong winds and cyclones. It is also considered to be a suitable tree for inter-planting with other commercial forest species. The tree starts bearing from 6-8 years and its productive life can last for 50-70 years, though the full life span is about 150 years. A healthy tree yields about 50-100 kg of fruits. The fruits are harvested in multiple pickings over an 8-10-week period between February and April.