 One conventional method employed for its quick removal has been to burn the resulting waste on the agricultural land (in situ burning) because it is easier, Indian Farming 73 (08): 20-22; August 2023 less time-consuming, economical and requires no investment. It has been known till 2020 that about 90 to 140 Mt paddy straw is annually burnt in India. This approach, however, has been criticized for its unsustainability, damage to flora and fauna, loss of nutrients in the form of loss of soil organic carbon (SOC) and, in the long run, the increased global carbon dioxide emissions adding to the imminent global climate crisis. Regarding the loss of SOC alone, the burning of paddy straw causes a deficit of 3850 million kg organic carbon, 59 million kg nitrogen, 20 million kg phosphorus and 34 million kg potassium annually. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) estimates the global emission percentage from the agriculture sector to be over 20% of total greenhouse gas emissions, which translates to over 8 billion metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent. When equated with the drastic rise in global temperature and the detrimental effect of climate change, these numbers make this practice even more unconscionable. Another deteriorating effect of in situ burning is seen on human health because of the release of toxic carcinogens on combustion, including polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs) and polychlorinated dibenzodioxins (PCDDs). About 0.05% of total greenhouse gas production in India is attributed to the burning of paddy straws. The last decade has seen significant progress, and a number of studies aimed towards developing utilization methodologies and new technologies to reduce and manage the waste resulting from paddy, are focused on biodegradation. Biodegradation is defined as a natural process that involves the breakdown of organic matter into simpler compounds like carbon dioxide or water. Although the process is mostly natural, it can be speed up and regulated using a microorganism which is selective for the substrate or by using a consortium, i.e. a group of compliant microorganisms that show synergism in their metabolism towards a substrate. Most of the studies in this regard focussed on Indian Farming 21 August 2023 the high fibre content of paddy and its potential use as a renewable source of energy in the wake of depleting fossil fuels; however, they looked over the economic feasibility of these options as the straws were under-utilized because only a part of them could be useful, generating new pollutants. This was especially true in the case of paper production using paddy straws which, being low in fibre content when compared to wood, lowered its use value in papermaking. Another use of paddy straws was suggested in biorefineries which refers to the co-production of transportation biofuels, bioenergy and marketable chemicals from renewable biomass sources.