 The world’s water systems are threatened by overuse, pollution and climate change. India has 4 per cent of world’s freshwater and 80 per cent of this is used in agriculture. Per capita availability of water in the country per year is declining (from 5,177 m3 in 1951 to 1,820 m3 in 2001, 1,588 m3 in 2010) and it is expected to decline to 1,341 by 2025 and 1,140 m3 by 2050. The situation may aggravate with anticipated impact of climate change. Thus, valuing and managing water effectively present a transformative opportunity to convert risk to resilience, poverty to well-being and degraded ecosystems to sustainable ones. Major irrigation source in India is groundwater, (60 per cent), followed by canal irrigation (26 per cent). The growth of irrigated area is mainly due to increase in tubewells. The average stage of groundwater development at country level is ~62 per cent. Out of 6,584 assessment units (Blocks/ Mandals/ Talukas), 1,034 have been categorized as ‘Over-exploited’, 253 are ‘Critical’ and 681 are semi-critical. Excessive extraction Dr Suresh Kumar Chaudhari is Deputy Director General (Natural Resource Management), ICAR. His focus areas have been: dynamics of irrigation induced land degradation, soil hydraulic properties under different quality waters, influence of poor and marginal quality waters on soil properties and plant growth, direct and indirect estimations of soil hydraulic properties, pedo-transfer functions to predict soil hydraulic properties and irrigation water management in field crops. 65 Contemporary Agricultural Research of groundwater is in the North Indian states. Groundwater development is less than 50 per cent in most of the East Indian states, this indicates a huge untapped potential of groundwater in the eastern region. The major challenges in the irrigation sector are low water-use efficiency, water- energy nexus, growing of water guzzling crops in water deficit areas, imbalanced groundwater use, poor quality water and toxicities, poor rainwater management, etc. Enhancing irrigation efficiency needs to be given a top-priority. Current efficiency is about 30-40 per cent, which can be increased to 60 per cent. There exists a significant gap between the actual and the maximum water productivity and if this gap is lessened, that itself would reduce additional need for irrigation water. Both supply and demand side management strategy along with local needs is essential to determine irrigation water management plan. There is an urgent need to raise awareness on value of water and in promoting collaborative actions by national and local governments, industry, civil societies for incentive-based approach and identifying opportunities to improve efficient practices. Some of the major policy interventions that merit immediate attention are irrigation efficiency and water productivity improvement; groundwater management; wastewater management in Agriculture and a vibrant policy on water pricing.