 Keywords: rawa, jackfruit, jaggery, cake Clam is cleaned and onion, coconut, chilli powder, turmeric powder, tamarind pulp and rice flour are added. Shri Mohan Tendulkar Mulkorlem, Sanglem, South Goa, (Goa) Ms Sandhya Kamat, Uppar Bazzar, Ponda, North Goa (Goa) Ms Leela Talauliker, Taleigao, Tiswadi, North Goa (Goa) Ms Vasanti Tarker, Siolim, Bardez, North Goa (Goa) Ms Vasanti Kamat, Sioliom, Bardez, North Goa (Goa) Content FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Cod Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator Then rollinin rawa (Somalina) is taken and is shallow-fried. Keywords: cutlet, clam, turmeric, rollinin rawa 3541 Macrel gizzard cutlet First gizzards are collected from the Ms Nita Talauliker, macrel fish. Onion, coconut, chilli Panaji, Tiswadi, North powder, turmeric powder, tamarind Goa (Goa) and rice flour are added and rolled in rawa (Somalina) and then shallow- fried on pan. Keywords: macrel, gizzard, rawa, cutlet Content 18 Yarns Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3542 Use of powder of wild banana leaves to improve the quality of thread for gale (traditional dress) weaving 3543 Extraction of fibre from pulichai keerai (Hibiscus cannabinus) 3544 Traditional rope-making from bayuhal (Gravia optiva) Aadi tribe of Pasighat area of district East Siang in Arunachal Pradesh are quite wise to use this wisdom. A local cultivar of banana, named Ghost Fo, is selected for this purpose. The women- folk are able to identify this cultivar in the forest. On backside of wild banana leaves there is production of special kind of powder, which is used for gale weaving. The whole leaves are cut and dried in shade, and then these are cautiously taken for preservation. Whenever tribal people weave the gale, the preserved leaves are rubbed on the thread. This powder improves the quality of the thread and creates shine in the gale dress, which fetches higher price in the market. Keywords: banana-leaf powder, gale weaving, rub Matured and harvested pulichai keerai (Hibiscus cannabinus) plants are immersed in water for 10 days. Then these are smashed on a slab to separate the fibres. This is a local practice to make fibre from pulichai keerai. Keywords: fibre extraction, pulichai keerai Fibre, extracted from the stems of bayuhal (Gravia optiva) is used to make ropes, which are used in various agricultural, horticultural and animal husbandry activities by the local people. This ITK is used in Shimla district of Himachal Pradesh. Keywords: bayuhal (Gravia optiva), rope-making, stem Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri S. Vivekanda Prabhakar, 69, Church Street, P.O.