 Entrepreneurship Development Programme (EDP) (Intensive training programme for creation of entire value chain) Small enterprises (Integration of animal health and production technology) Institutional Ecosystem Entrepreneurs/ Small enterprises/ Startup companies/ Startups Annual Interaction meet of Entrepreneurs (for cross learning and problem solving) Further follow up, mentoring & cross learning Further follow up, mentoring & cross learning IVRI-ABI Model for Entrepreneurship Development. Model for Pig Farming Enterprise Development under IVRI-ABI. Pig Farming Enterprise Development Continuous follow up Provision for breedable animals Integration of classical swine fever vaccine technology Entrepreneurship Development Training Programme (EDP) on Pig production Banking sector Multi disciplinary team of IVRI experts Successful Pig Farming entrepreneur Indian Farming January 2020 32 Pig enterprise development: Success Story of an Entrepreneur Er Pradeep Kumar, basically a mechanical engineer, started his business in January 2017 and initially undergone huge loss due to lack of proper scientific knowledge in pig farming and management practices. But he never gave up his hope. While searching for the apt solution, he came across one of the EDPs on Pig Production organized at ICAR-IVRI. He enrolled himself in this course organized under ABI scheme of IVRI. In that training programme he learnt about various technical aspects of pig farming along with creation of entire value chain which boosted his confidence to undertake the activity with rejuvenated vigor. He was in touch with various activities conducted at ICAR-IVRI under ABI like interactive session which helped in capacity building of manpower associated with his enterprise. He also admits that “YouTube videos and information on other social media platforms are not always much scientific to gather holitistic knowledge to lead a successful business”. After getting trained from ICAR-IVRI, he started his own successful enterprise VDMR Agrotech Pvt Ltd Shilkohabad main-UP which is having more than 400 pigs at present. Encouraged by the success of previous enterprise, he started other farm SSGT-kanthari, at Shikhobad-UP with more than 350 pigs. Recently he has started one more new farm at Mathura with 80 animals. He has employed more than 10 staff members. Not only that, he has started working towards innovative solutions for the alarming problems of this industry. The escalating price of pig feed is making this industry less remunerative. For that he has innovated a low cost pig feed and has registered his company VDMR Agrotech and applied for seed funding from RKVY RAFTTAR Agribuisness Scheme. For all his efforts, Er Pradeep was recently felicitated bt Hon'ble Union Minister of Fisheries and Animal Husbandary. facilitator for small and large scale entrepreneurs by providing them research knowledge on the technical front as well as at business level.