 • Hang this in the 20 litre water up to 12 hours. • Take one litre water and add 50 gm lime in it and let it stabilize for a night. • Then next morning, squeeze this bundle of the cow dung in that water thrice continuously, so that all essence of cow dung will accumulate in that water. • Then add a handful of soil in that water solution and stir it well. • Then add 5 litre desi cow urine in that solution and add lime water and stir it well. • Bijamrita is then used to treat the seeds which are done by spreading it over the seeds, mixing these seeds by hands, drying it well and use for sowing. Jivamrita: It is a fermented microbial culture which provides nutrients, but most importantly, acts as a catalytic agent that promotes the activity of micro-organisms in the soil as well increases the earthworm activities and prevents fungal and bacterial plant diseases. Preparation of Jivamrita: • Add 10 kg cow dung and 10 litres cow urine. • Add 2 kg jaggery in it. • Then add 2 kg of pulse ﬂour and a handful of soil from the bund. • Put water to make 200 litres volume in a barrel. • Stir the solution well and let it ferment in shade for 48 hours. Acchadana (mulching): Mulching promotes humus formations, suppresses weeds and maintains the water requirement of crops. For the proper growth, multiplication and activity of beneficial micro- organisms that are applied through Jivamrita, a favourable definite microclimate is required. The temperature of the soil should be in the range of 25–32°C with 65–72% moisture, darkness and warmth. Microclimate is created automatically after mulching the soil. Whapasa (moisture): According to Palekar, what roots need is water in the form of vapours. Whapasa is that microclimate in the soil, by which the soil organisms and roots can live freely with availability of sufficient air and essential moisture in the soil. Most of the micro- organisms and root hair are active in the top 10–15 cm of soil layer and it is important to maintain Whapasa in that zone of soil. Pest management Neemastra: It is useful in the management of whitefly, aphid, jassids, sap sucking insects, small caterpillars, etc. Farmers of Nako Village (Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh) Indian Farming 13 August 2023 Method of preparation: • After pouring water (100 litre) in the drum and mixing cow urine (10 litres) in it, add cow dung (2 kg) to it. • Now add small neem twigs (5 kg), cut into pieces along with the leaves. • Mix this solution well slowly in the direction of the needles of the clock. • Cover this mixture with a gunny bag and keep it in the shade for 48 hours. • Stir this mixture morning and evening with a wooden stick in clockwise direction for 1 minute. Agniastra: The use of Agniastra is useful for controlling pests like sap sucking insects, small caterpillars, pod borers, etc.