 The developed system can be used in orchard crops for pruning, spraying and fruits plucking. One of the possible ways to increase the digestibility of poor quality roughages like rice and wheat straw is urea treatment. The handling task can be minimized substantially by treating straw with a retrofitted urea solution spraying system on the straw baler. The capacity of straw baler with urea spraying system is 109 bales/h for paddy at a straw load of 8.3 t/ha. A three-row multi- crop planter cum herbicide applicator was developed for planting of seeds and application of herbicide simultaneously. The performance of the implement was evaluated for the sowing of soybean, green gram and fodder maize crops. The cost of the implement is ` 15,000. A high-pressure variable range sprayer prototype was developed to control the hopper and adult locust. The other implements developed for farm mechanization were: animal cast mounted solar sprayer, ultra-low volume spraying system, tractor operated intra row cum inter row weeder for orchards, sprayer equipped with electro- pneumatic system to control whitefly in cotton crop, tractor operated planter for tissue culture banana, dust separation system for the wheat straw combine, trimming mechanism type banana sucker pairing equipment, banana pseudo stem injector, tractor operated banana bunch harvester, cashew apple slicer, cleaner for multiplier onion, lifting platform for operations in green house, power-operated mini rhizome planter, power-operated groundnut stripper cum decorticator, dust protection mask, solar fan-assisted headgear for environmental heat stress, solar-assisted micro-algae harvesting system and non-thermal plasma pyrolysis reactor. Initiatives were undertaken to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. The portable touch-free hand wash system, hand sanitizer unit and pedal-operated sanitizer dispensing unit were developed to prevent spread of COVID-19. Post-harvest management and value-addition: Green pea is used as fresh, frozen, canned and in dried seed form. The shelling/de-poding of pea seeds from the matured pods is a requisite operation. A small to medium scale green pea de-poding machine was developed with a capacity of 45-55 kg/h, shelling efficiency of 90-95% and 2-3% damage. The on farm solar assisted dryer for drying groundnut pods was developed. After drying, the groundnut pods can be stored for a longer time. The other machinery developed for post-harvest management and value-addition were: primary makhana roasting machine, loading/unloading device, poultry processing cum by- product collection unit, automated amylose detection sensor system for assessment of ageing of rice grain, portable solar dryer for hills, portable ozone-based fruits and vegetables washer-cum-purifier/portable smart ultraviolet-C disinfection system. A novel process to produce protein isolates/ concentrates from oilseed cakes/meals without the addition of strong or diluted acid was developed.