 Due to immense population of farmers and different topographies of our country, dissemination of right information in convenient time was the huge obstacle. ICTs can play a very crucial role in digitalization of agriculture and thus by disseminating location specific and timely information to farmers to help them make better and well-informed decisions. Government of India is running many schemes to make agriculture digital, smart and also to increase farmer’s income. Special emphasis is being given on electronic and mobile app-based agriculture. Sensors, Internet of Things (IoT), data collection, data analysis tools and IT systems-based agriculture have just started in India. India will have to understand the challenges and possibilities associated with digitalization and smart agriculture and formulate policies to further extend benefits of digitalization to remaining farm families. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: burman_extn@hotmail.com Indian Farming 43 June 2023 Synergy among knowledge systems for sustainable agriculture: Lessons for G20 nations from India Ranjay K Singh*, Dheeraj Singh and Sanjit Maiti Division of Agricultural Extension, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi 110 012 Agricultural sustainability is essential for addressing climate change, arresting biodiversity loss and ensuring food security. However, a balanced relationship between cultural ideals, environmental conditions and economy is crucial for using, and creating new information through a synergy among the knowledge systems. Agricultural communities world over have evolved local knowledge systems that help in conserving natural resources, while scientific knowledge, developed by agricultural research institutions, play vital role in either eliminating agricultural issues directly or through strengthening local knowledge systems. Additionally, agricultural extension services gather and integrate such knowledge systems by constantly interacting with farmers and other stakeholders. These diverse knowledge system and related practices may aid context-specific management of agricultural resources and strengthening resilience strategies. Such resources are valuable in developing agricultural technologies, capacity building and coherent policies for G20 nations. With sharing and collaboration on knowledge systems, policy coordination, financial support to developing nations and partnerships, G20 nations can facilitate debates on knowledge management system and ensuring the sustainable agriculture. Keywords: Agricultural sustainability, Collaborations, G20 countries, Knowledge systems, Reciprocal learning F OOD and Agriculture Organization (FAO) has defined sustainable agriculture as the efficient production of safe, high-quality agricultural products, in a way that protects and improves the natural environment, the social and economic conditions of farmers, their employees and local communities, and safeguards the health and welfare of all farmed species.