 The skin of the fruit is tough, the flesh is firm, succulent, and contains numerous soft, juicy, sub-acid to sweet seeds. The fruits have a musky acid and tomato- like flavour and can be eaten raw or cooked. The fruits after plucking may be preserved for several weeks without loss in edible quality. The fruits are rich in vitamins (A and C), iron, and pectin and can be stewed and made into jam and jelly. The hard and bitter seeds of the fruit are removed before making jelly, jam, or sauce. The skin can be removed by the process of blanching (i.e. immersing the fruit in boiling water for one or two minutes). The seeds are thin, flat, circular, larger and harder, and higher in numbers than those of common tomato. Origin and distribution The plant is presently distributed in subtropical areas of South Africa, India, Hong Kong, China, the United States, Australia, and New Zealand. In India, it is cultivated in the hilly regions of Assam, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu (Nilgiri hills), Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka (Mysore) at an elevation of 300 to 2500 m. In low-lying tropical areas, the growth is poor and the tree seldom fruits. Indian Horticulture 24 Soil and climate The tree tomato requires fertile, light soil with a good amount of oxygen content. Water standing for even a few days may kill the tree, so proper drainage is required. The plant is easily propagated from seeds or cuttings. If it is cultivated deeply with well-manured soils, it grows rapidly and comes into bearing in about 1 ½ to 2 years. They grow best in full sun except in hot, dry situations, where partial shade is better. They need protection from strong winds. It requires fertile, light soil that is rich in organic matter. Perfect drainage is also necessary. Water standing for even a few days may kill the plant. Because of the shallow root system, deep cultivation is not possible, but light cultivation to eliminate weeds is acceptable. Cultivars Even though the tamarillo has a wide range of fruit characteristics, only a few cultivars have been commercially cultivated. Three tamarillo skin types, rather than cultivars, are known in the Andean region. Propagation Seeds and cuttings may be used for propagation. Propagation using seed is easy although plants are high- branched, erect trees, while cuttings (basal and aerial suckers) develop into a shorter, bushy plant with low-lying branches. The tree does not always come true from seed but is most likely to if one is careful to take seed from red fruits with black seed pulp or yellow fruits with yellow seed pulp. Germination is accelerated by placing washed and dried seed in a freezer for 24 h before planting out. Cuttings should be of 1 to 2-year-old wood, 3/8 to l inch thick and 18 to 30 inches long. The leaves are removed and the base cut square below a node. Cuttings can be planted directly in the ground. Cultivation Spacing: Close planting at the spacing of 1.2–1.