 The National Capital Territory of Delhi covers an area of 1,483 km2 (573mile2), of which 1,114 km2 is designated as urban, and 369 km2 as rural. According to the Indian geography the state is located at the north of the Indian subcontinent, amidst the ranges of Himalaya and the Aravalli. Delhi geography encompasses the location, climatic conditions, vegetation similar to Haryana and Rajasthan. Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are the other states, which share their borders with Delhi in the west and east, respectively. Delhi geography divides the state into three parts- the Delhi ridge, the Yamuna flood plain and the plains. The Yamuna river plains are very fertile as they are flooded by the river and are rich in alluvial soil The land utilization pattern of Delhi has a heavy tilt towards urban and industrial sector. Being the fastest growing urban area of India and the capital of emerging economy like India, it carries its own justification. The state needs to expand agricultural production substantially in order to provide livelihood to the rural population. The green area belongs to the forest and agriculture. There also the share of farm land with essential facilities is receding. The gross area irrigated reduced from 31107 hectares during 2008-09 to 29429 hectare during2015-16, indicating a decline of 5.39 per cent during the last eight years. The area irrigated through wells, which was the main source of irrigation, has also declined from 21492 hectare during 2008-09 to 19,561 hectare during 2015-16, recording a decrease of 8.00 per cent. Irrigation is an extremely important input for agricultural growth along with quality seeds of High Yielding Varieties. There is no scope for increasing the farm size. Yet steady increase in population with shrinkage of cultivated land as a result of industrialization and urbanization would pose serious hurdle for agricultural development. Only vertical expansion is possible by integrating appropriate farming components requiring lesser space and time ensuring continuous income to the farmers. The Vegetation of Delhi varies with its varied topography and comprises of small and medium sized plants and shrubs. One important aspect about the vegetation of Delhi is that it is widely scattered and do not form any shade as such over any part in the city. To study the nature of vegetation that grows in the different parts of the city, it is first important to know about the State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 112 topographical variations of Delhi. The entire topography of Delhi is divided into a ridge, the Yamuna Flood Plain and the Plain. It is interesting to note here that each of these regions is marked by distinct type of vegetation. The ridge area of the city offers the right factors that favour the growth of acacias and some cacti. During the monsoon, herbaceous plants grow in abundance in the ridge.