 Women participants often felt that despite their significant contri­ bution to both on- and off-farm activities, their work is treated as an extension of their household chores and adds a dual burden of domestic responsibilities. Discussions found that farmers are gradually appreciating the need for balanced fertilizer application and are increasingly using natural fertilizers to maintain soil and crop quality. Women farmers play a crucial role in preparation of these natural fertilizers as they are actively involved in animal husbandry and hence may be more equipped for this. While all respondents were engaged in agriculture in some way, nonfarm employment activities differ significantly by district and gender. In the more industrialized districts, such as Ahmedabad, Anand, Gandhinagar, and Mehsana, youth—both men and women—work in industries due to an abundance of job opportunities. These are also areas where higher education institutions have proliferated, creating a mass of educated youth who seek to move from agriculture into blue-collar jobs considered more aspirational. In districts such as Kutch and Aravalli that are overwhelmingly rural, dependence on nonfarm employment is low, and where agriculture is not viable, migration to neighboring areas is commonplace. For women farmers to be able to focus on expanding agricultural production and enhancing their knowledge around CSA practices, the burden of domestic work needs to reduce significantly. This is reflected in the FGDs: with men’s reduced involvement in agricultural activities, women are responsible for managing all household chores as well as animal husbandry along with managing their fields. 4.2. Indicators of climate change and adaptation strategies To better understand gendered differences in climate change per­ ceptions, we asked respondents to discuss the climate change signals they had observed. A large proportion of respondents noted that un­ certainty in rain was one major indicator of climate change. To them this was most apparent because the rains were not following the traditional monsoon timeline, with instances of unseasonal rain, called Mavtha, becoming increasingly common. The most recent instance happened earlier in 2019, causing high crop losses across the state. It is to be noted, that farmers responses to perceived climate change may be mediated by their most recent experiences of weather variability, which may differ from long term trends in precipitation level. Similarly, an increase in both the length and intensity of hot summer months, and a reduction in Table 2 Key agricultural activities undertaken by women and men reported during FGDs.