 The reports indicated clear evidence of the utility of these plants as antispasmodic, antidepressant, antiseptic, stimulant, tonic, febrifuge, diaphoretic, nervine, antibacterial, expectorant, appetizer, carminative, galactagogue and stomachic.  ETHNIC FOOD Code :1046 Title of the ITK :Ethnic uses of gucchi (Morchella sp.) mushroom in food and as medicine Description of the ITK :Rangmuto (gucchi) is found during March–May in most of the villages in Kinnaur district. It is dried for storage and mostly prepared during winter season. Fresh gucchi is washed in water and cut into small pieces. Then 20 g each of onion and garlic is added after adequately heating ghee or mustard oil. One spoonful of chili, spices and salt according to the taste is added. Then gucchi is added and allowed for cooking for about 15–20 minutes. This dish is purely vegetarian and is eaten with rice or chapati. This dish is highly nutritive, hygienic and a good source of energy. Gucchi is considered to be a good source of protein. This has been practised since time immemorial in most of the villages in Kinnaur district. Name and address of the discloser :Shri Dharam Lal Negi, V.P.O. Roghi (Near Kalpa), Tehsil Kalpa, Kinnaur (Himachal Pradesh) Location of use of the ITK :This ITK is prevalent in different areas of Kinnaur district in Himachal Pradesh. Kinnaur district is situated 77° 45' and 79° 00' 35" east longitude and between 31° 55' 50" and 32° 05' 15" north latitudes. Basically, the people have agriculture and animal husbandry as the main occupations. The climate of the district is most suited for production of temperate fruits and vegetables of very high quality. A majority of the area is under cold desert and is isolated and is accessible. These areas are known for traditional ethos and wisdom for natural resource management. Experimenters :Dr T.N. Lakhanpal, Professor and Head, Department of Bio- Sciences; Dr Anand Sagar, Assistant Professor, Department of Bio-Sciences and Ms. Monika Rana, Scientific Assistant, Department of Bio-Sciences, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla 171 005. METHODOLOGY Field survey and collection of the materials were done from different parts of Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh. The laboratory investigations were carried out in the Department of Biosciences, Himachal Pradesh, University, Shimla 171 005. PRA and field study The PRA exercise and field studies were carried out to generate information on the  ETHNIC FOOD M. angusticeps M. conica M. deliciosa M. esculenta M. tiblica Morchella sp. Fig. 1. Different fruiting bodies of Morchella spp Fig. 2. Indigenous method of drying morels by threading them into garlands following aspects: (i) associated vegetations in different locations; (ii) general information on guchhi mushroom (Morchella sp.