in 57 Kuruma Shrimp Penaeus japonicus (Bate, 1888) ŠŠ The Kuruma shrimp is distributed in the Indo-west Pacific region, from South East Africa to south-east Asia to north Australia. ŠŠ Broodstocks of an average weight above 40 g for female and above 20 g for males are recruited for the hatchery productions after quarantine screening for all important diseases. ŠŠ Induced maturation is practiced by unilateral eye-stalk ablation and/or hormonal treatment in hatchery conditions. ŠŠ Female shrimp reaches final reproductive maturation within 1 to 2 weeks after eye-stalk ablation and lays 80,000 to 3,00,000 eggs depending on size. ŠŠ Fertilized eggs hatches to nauplii which metamorphosed to six such stages (N 1-N VI) and further to three stages of protozoa followed by three stages of mysis. Larval rearing is completed within 10-11 days and larvae metamorphosed to post-larvae. ŠŠ A feeding regime starting with microalgae like diatoms maintained at 80,000-1,30,000 cell/ ml is followed during protozoea and mysis stages following which live Artemia nauplius (4-5 nos/PL) and microencapsulated particulate diet is given during Pl1 to PL20 stages. ŠŠ PL 5 from each larval rearing tanks are transferred to PL nursery tanks where they can grow up to PL 15-20 stages, which become ready for stocking in commercial shrimp ponds. ŠŠ Routine health check following the level of assessment and complying with HACCP principles and code of conduct of responsible fisheries should be part of good hatchery management. ŠŠ The seed production technology is yet to be adopted at commercial level. Compiled by: Mr I.f. Biju, Mr Antony Jose and Mr R. Aravind More information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture, Chennai E. mail: director@ciba.res.in 58 Green Tiger Prawn Penaeus semisulcatus (De Haan, 1844) ŠŠ Green tiger prawn is a commercially important penaeid shrimp species, dominant in the coastal waters of Tamil Nadu. Grows to 230 mm and 270 mm in TL in case of males and females, respectively. ŠŠ Gravid females are recorded round the year with two peaks, one during July-September and the other during February-March. Female lays 2-4 lakh eggs. ŠŠ Seed production can be carried out using wild spawner or hatchery developed broodstock. Gravid females can be identified by observing the gonadal development from the dorsal exoskeleton of the shrimp. ŠŠ Hatching occurs 12-14 h after spawning. ŠŠ Larval stages comprise six naupliar stages (NI-VI), three protozoea stages (PZI-III) and three mysis stages (M I-III), and last mysis stage moults to post larval stage (PL-1). It overall takes 9-10 days, to complete the larval stages. ŠŠ Nauplii larvae are stocked @ 100 nos/litre and feeding starts with first protozoeal stage (PZ-I). Larvae, from PZ-I to M-III stages are fed with Chaetoceros spp by maintaining at 1000 cells/ml in the rearing tanks. PL-1 to PL-20 are fed with microencapsulated diet (@ 2-4 mg/larva/day) and Artemia nauplii (@1-2 no/ml).