 (2020) in Ghana and Adesoye and Adepoju (2020) in Nigeria. Possible job opportunities for households in urban areas to involve in other off-farm jobs to support the household food expenditure could be one of the key reasons for the negative relationship. Fascinatingly, the extent of UA participation decreases food insecurity in the first equation. Thus, an increase in the extent of UA increases the food security status of the household. Similarly, studies by Smart et al. (2015) in Zambia and Frayne et al. (2016) in Maseru of Lesotho, Cape town of South Africa and Lusaka of Zambia revealed that households involved in UA had better access to food compared to households that are not involved in UA. The result implies that UA could be one of the strategies the Government of Ghana could advance to improve urban households’ food security, in particular, the rapidly growing emerging cities. It is informative to note that, from the interviews, majority of the households produce vegetables such as onions, okra, lettuce, garden eggs, tomatoes, cabbage and pepper, with few others who were producing carrot, cucumber, beetroot, spring onion, parsley and local vegetables such as ayoyo, boma and sowri. Also, out of the whole sample, only 75 households were rearing goats, whereas about ten households had fruits such as banana and orange. In both equations (food-security scores and food per capita expenditure), increases in household expenditure were positively related to increases in food security. Similarly, Ecker (2018) reported that, in Ghana, household expenditure is positively linked with food security. Further, the results show that undertaking UA as a business has a positive relationship with per capita food expenditure of the household but negatively related to food security scores. Quite surprisingly, food security status increases with increases in the distance from the urban farm to the nearest market. The result suggests that urban spaces close to the market promote increases in marketed surplus beyond the marketable surplus of urban households as there is a high desire to trade the produce for money to household consumption. On the Extent of urban agriculture and food security 449 contrary, an urban farmer located in the Bono East and Bono Regions of Ghana is more likely to be food secured compared to contemporaries in Greater Accra. It is enlightening to note that these regions mentioned are noted to be among the leading foodbasket regions. As a consequence, food availability and accessibility are high compared to households located in Accra. In Table 6, it is revealing to note that, except for the variable on business, all the factors that were significant in the subjective food security measurement (HFIAS scored) and the objective tool (per capita food expenditure) had the same direction of influence on food security in the urban households.