 An anti-obesity nutraceutical product, CadalminTM Antihypercholesterolemic extract (CadalminTM ACe), which is effective in combating dyslipidemia and obesity was developed and commercialized. Agricultural human resource development: The Agricultural Education Division continued to strive for maintaining and upgrading quality and relevance of higher agricultural education in the country. Financial support was provided for constructing 27 new student hostels, including 17 girls’ hostel for gender mainstreaming, 3 auditoriums and 6 examination halls for strengthening infrastructure and student amenities, Niche Area of Excellence (15, including one new), Experiential Learning (10 new), besides refurbishing and maintenance of educational structures, student and faculty amenities, course curricula revision, strengthening libraries with ICT and modernization of teaching with multimedia learning resources, etc. HRD programmes/activities facilitated promotion and execution of ICAR sponsored schemes that include centralized admissions in UG/PG and Ph.D. to reduce inbreeding, infuse merit and promote national integration; award and distribution of fellowships to attract talent and promote merit; admission of foreign students for globalization of agricultural education; capacity building of faculty through Summer-Winter Schools and Centre of Advanced Faculty training; National Professor and National Fellow programmes for promotion of excellence; and Emeritus Scientist programmes as a structural method of utilizing skill bank of the outstanding superannuated professionals. Quality assurance of AUs was ensured through accreditation. Several new initiatives, viz. ranking of universities, declaring UG degrees in agriculture and allied subjects as professional monitoring and review of fund utilization etc., have been introduced during the current year. Social sciences: The Government of India in its annual budget of 2016-17, for the first time, indicated a change in policy stance from excessive emphasis on food production towards improving farmers’ income, and has set a target of doubling it by 2022. Six broad thematic groups, related ministries and operationalised developmental programmes were identified for mainstreaming climate change adaptation (CCA) in India is still in its preliminary stage. Incorporation of local knowledge and strategies in dealing with the climatic aberrations form a significant supplement to the decision making process both in district and state level plans since the adaptation integration process requires synergy between all the decision making levels. The Network Project on Market Intelligence provided reliable and timely price forecasts to farmers for major agricultural commodities throughout the country to facilitate informed-and intelligent-decisions by the farmers.