 Crop planning, based on total rainfall, may be erroneous because the availability of moisture for crops is different on sandy and clayey soils with similar precipitation. Further, the use of Thornthwaites’ moisture indices-based bioclimatic class portrays the average annual weather conditions of the zone. Within an agro-climatic region, several agro-ecoregions may result depending on soil-scape, LGP, and other environmental conditions, including flora and fauna. Some agro-ecoregions with comparable broad climatic types are defined to represent agro-ecosystems. On the other hand, agro-ecoregions have been subdivided into different agro-ecological sub-regions by narrowing down the criteria of some parameters like LGP and bio-climate, and by introducing a few additional soil parameters such as texture, depth, and mineralogy. Therefore, agro-ecological region map is more precise and practical in developing future action plan invoicing crop diversification; transfer of on-farm research results, and agricultural technology to other analogous areas for optimizing land use. The concept of agro-ecological region (AER) also helps to address agriculturally potential areas suitable for particular genotypes so that optimum production potential of a crop and cropping sequence could be attained. It is further useful in delineating agro- ecologically comparable resource regions for generating and transferring agro-technology to meet the country’s ever-increasing food, fodder and fiber needs. Revision of AER map of India The revision of existing AER map of India was necessitated by the increased data availability. The continued efforts to enrich soil information through soil survey and acquisition of meteorological data through increased number of weather stations improved our understanding of soil-scape and their interaction with weather parameters. The revision was done in two steps. In the first step, a soil resource map of a 1:1 million scale was generalized in terms of red, black, alluvial and sandy soil regions. In the second step, LGP and bioclimate map were revised. Finally, bio-climate and LGP maps were superimposed on a generalized soil map for developing a revised agro-ecological region map of the country. In the AER map of 1992, a soil map of coarser resolution (1:7 M) was used. With the completion of soil resource mapping of the country on a 1:1 m scale (NBSS&LUP 2002), a refined soil map on finer resolution (1:250000) was published. The information on climatic parameters also changed geometrically since 1992. Therefore, the AER map of the country was re-delineated. Methodology used for revising agro-ecological regions Indian Farming 15 June 2023 Agro-ecological map of India Comparison of 1992 and 2015 AER maps: Impressions of changing climate The present AER map divides the country into 20 agro-ecological regions. The first three regions (AER 1 to 3) cover arid ecosystems.