 Induction in the AVT-I (i) The breeder nominating NIL entries under the AVT-I-NIL should enclose the list of molecular markers used for marker-assisted breeding, which includes those used for both foreground and background selections. (ii) The NILs should have a minimum of 80% introgression as is estimated from parental polymorphic SSR markers through background selection or as is decided by the crop breeding experts and through genomic information available in a given crop. (iii) A minimum of 6 parental polymorphic markers per chromosome should be used for this estimation. (iv) There should be a minimum of two markers flanking the gene/QTL of interest if the gene/QTL is not in the telomeric or centromeric region. In the latter case, the marker identifying the gene/QTL should be reliably validated for detection of the gene/QTL with a minimum or no linkage drags. (v) The breeder nominating the entry under the AVT-I-NIL trial should furnish details in a prescribed proforma at the time of the nomination of the entry. A Committee constituted by the Project Director will examine the proposal and approve or reject nomination. (vi) The NIL should have minimum two phenotypic characters (which can be easily assessed in the field) for the purpose of its identification and distinction from the parental variety. This will facilitate seed certification agency/seed law enforcement authority in the certification process. Information 15 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS on this should be supplied at the time of proposing for identification of the NIL. E. Evaluation of special NILs and generation of data (i) The NIL would be tested along with the recurrent parent as a check for two years to verify traits that are introgressed in the agroclimatic zone for which recurrent parent or original hybrid was notified earlier. (ii) For yield purpose, the NIL would be compared with the recurrent parent variety for establishing its performance vis-à-vis parent variety. (iii) For validation of the introgressed trait, the NIL would be tested with the donor parent for the target trait that has been transferred from the donor. (iv) The NIL testing has to be carried out under the natural and artificial conditions (where target observation is for pest/disease/stress resistance) and for other traits following standard experimental procedures and techniques along with the recurrent parent. (v) Where the targeted trait is not disease/pest, the requirement of nomination for the trial of having resistance/tolerance to disease/pest is not a pre-requisite, since the recurrent parent is a variety already in a large-scale cultivation by the farmers. F. Monitoring of the trials (i) The monitoring of the trials is mandatory. (ii) The Monitoring Committee should involve at least one specialist associated with the target trait along with the breeder(s) from the Institution(s) concerned.