 v) Revisiting the Score Cards for direct recruitment to various scientific positions in ICAR. vi) Any other issue or matter for improvement in ARS or emanating or incidental to the above terms of reference. b) METHODOLOGY & APPROACH 2.4 The task before the Committee was enormous considering the fact that the Committee had to review almost each aspect of the Agricultural Research Service covering ARS disciplines, eligibility qualifications for each discipline at entry level, eligibility qualifications for direct selection to various scientific posts including Research Management Posts in ICAR, Score Card for direct selection of scientists to senior scientific posts and all management related aspects. 2.5 In order to critically look into the issues arising out of TOR, the committee met on six occasions at New Delhi (17.5.2010, 29.6.2010, 11.8.2010, 1.10.2010, 26.11.2010 and 15.2.2011). At the first meeting of the Committee, Director (P) made a presentation giving overall view of the ARS. Based on this presentation the committee prepared a conceptual framework and strategy for examining the various issues such as re-structuring of existing ARS disciplines, eligibility qualifications and Score Card for direct selection posts, reforms in the ARS etc. 2.6 The Committee decided that the members should collect maximum feedback and suggestions from scientific community, research managers, Directors of ICAR Institutes, Vice-Chancellors of State Agricultural Universities and other stakeholders. Based on these inputs, the committee members should crystallize their views and make presentation in their areas in subsequent meeting. The Committee strongly favoured a consensual approach for addressing 6 the key issues involved in an effort to ensure that the recommendations of the Committee are implemented smoothly. The Committee had the privilege of all available expertise, since members were drawn from across the various ICAR Institutions representing the major disciplines of agricultural sciences. 2.7 During the course of its work, the Committee had interactions with the Joint Directors/ Deans of Deemed Universities under the ICAR namely; the IARI, NDRI, IVRI, CIFE and the Vice-Chancellor of UAS, Bangalore on all major issues. The Committee received valuable inputs from them during the course of discussions. 2.8 Before finalization of report, the Committee invited Director General, ICAR and Secretary, ICAR on 15.02.2011 for interactions. During the course of the session, the major recommendations were highlighted. The various inputs given by DG as well as Secretary, ICAR during the interaction helped in fine tuning the final recommendations. 2.9 After debating the issues extensively and taking into account the comments and suggestions received from various sources, the Committee has finally come out with its recommendations which are based on collective wisdom of all members, as explained in the succeeding paragraphs, for consideration of the ICAR. 3.