 The Government of India’s consistent and concerted endeavors to usher into reforms for boosting agricultural exports have created a background of this diplomatic exercise. Further the execution of Agriculture export policy with subsequent waves of change in cooperative sector after the formation of Ministry of Cooperation and Credit Support have created a phenomenal change in the trade capacity of these collectives. For example, there is readymade six clusters have already been created in Maharashtra through collectives for grapes, mango, pomegranate, banana, oranges and onion. FPO’s and value chains The active participation and active involvement of jumbo states like Uttar Pradesh with their own export policy in consonance with national policies has created a boon for this sector. It has been further aggravated by Mega, Mega plus and Super Mega investments to realize the dream of FPO led Agricultural value chain. Much awaited Warehousing and Logistic Policy 2018 and UP Food Processing Policy 2017 has not only created a robust supply chain but also has given ample opportunity to enable the FPOs with overseas Market. Henceforth, this is the opportune time to remind to all stakeholders about the target set by governance as to double India’s share in world agricultural exports by integrating and enabling farmers with global value chain. Product based clusters In India, agriculture and horticulture production is around 600 million tonnes per year. The agriculture sector should be seen as an industry and all the stakeholders must work together for bringing the success of agriculture industry with a throttle speed at this juncture to tap this opportunity. Industrialists can also venture into agriculture as this will benefit farmers and will increase their earnings. Not only aromatic spices but also Indian shrimps, basmati and non-basmati rice, grapes, bananas, pomegranate, vegetables including potatoes, processed/value added products, cashew, plant parts/medicinal herbs in value added form, including herbal medicines, food based nutraceuticals, aromatics, spices (cumin, turmeric, pepper), ethnic and organic food are few potential winning sectors as securing nutrition and providing Food Security to global population. Most of the products/clusters in India, led by farmers’ collectives are already aligned with this objective awaiting attention for large scale promotion. Global approaches The diplomacy of agribusiness needs a systemic perspective on how institutions, policies, value chains, and global value chains interplay for the benefit of small farmers into global value chains. The Delivery to the final consumer and share of the producer in the process of agri value chain requires attention of non- government actors in a big way. A characteristic remark of Value chain is that they involve a chain of actions associated with adding value to a product, through the production and distribution processes of each activity.