 Annual winter crops are sowed between September and January, thus offering a heterogeneous agriculture– savanna mosaic comprising fallow land, crops with vary- ing vegetation structure, and a variety of food resources. This maintains a compositionally more complex land- scape through the winter compared with areas with sug- arcane cultivation. Our results show that both resident and Palearctic migratory birds are abundant in landscapes with a high proportion of annual crops, especially migratory shrub-preferring species such as Siberian stonechat (Saxicola maurus), Red-headed bunting (Emberiza bruniceps) and Booted warbler (Iduna caligata), which were frequently recorded during the surveys and likely benefit from annual crop diversity. Our results suggest an increase in species richness and abundance of resident species with an increase in semi-perennial crop cover in our study region. For Pale- arctic migratory species, the effect was strongly positive for the abundance of open-ground species. Semi- perennial sugarcane is heavily irrigated during the winter season. Irrigation channels and other water bodies sur- rounding the sugarcane are rich in food sources includ- ing fish, vertebrates, and regional water plants where waders and wetland species often forage (Mathialagan et al., 2022). Similarly, passerines find refuge and forag- ing habitats along uncultivated edge vegetation bordering sugarcane fields (Miller et al., 2011). This could explain the positive response of the resident bird populations and migratory open-ground species in semi-perennial agricul- ture as our data included resident species benefiting from the presence of water such as the lapwings (Vanellus indicus, Vanellus malabaricus), kingfishers (Halcyon smyrnensis), as well as resident and migratory passerines 10 of 17 BHAGWAT ET AL. such as babblers (Argya striata, Argya malcomi), short-toed lark (Calendrella brachydactyla), tawny pipit (Anthus campestris) and wagtails (Motacilla flava, Motacilla cinerea) which feed on open ground (see Appendix S1: Figure S2). At the same time, our results reveal that the abun- dance of Palearctic birds of prey declines with an increase in semi-perennial crops. This aligns with other findings on Palearctic migratory species in India, especially grass- land species, which primarily rely on homogeneous open ecosystems. For instance, harrier (Circus spp.) populations have experienced sharp declines in southern India following the rapid development of infrastructure, invasion of Prosopis juliflora, and other woody vegetation on former savannas that provide optimal roosting and foraging habitats (Ganesh & Prashanth, 2018; Saravanan et al., 2021).