 Content of argemon oil is probably responsible for outbreak of epidemic dropsy. An annual with prickly leaves, bright yellow flowers, and bristly capsules, containing many seeds resembling black mustard seed. It is an American plant, which is run wild in India and is now a troublesome weed. 30 Aristolochia bracteata Bracteated birthwort H-Kiramar G-Kidamari M-Kidemar T – Aduthinapalai MalAduthinapalai TelGadidhagadappa KanAdumuttadagida The expressed juice of leaves is said to destroy maggots, when applied to foul and neglected ulcers. Decoction of the root was found to be generally efficacious in expelling round worms. Bruised leaves mixed with caster oil is applied externally in obstinate cases of exzema on children’s leg. A slender perennial herb found in the upper gangetic plain, Bengal, the western Peninsula and in the North-West Bundelkhand. It grows abundantly on the black soils of the Deccan and Gujarat. 31 Aristolochia indica Indian birth wort H-Ishvarimul G-Arkmula M-Sapasan The roots have been found to contain alkaloid, aristolochin, C17H19O3N, a yellow bitter principle isoaristolochic acid, C17H11O7N and allantoin. In indigenous medicine, the roots are used for treatment of snake bite, fever and minor ailments of children such as flatulence and dyspepsia. The powdered root in honey is reported to be given for leucoderma and the juice of the leaves is regarded as cobra poision. Shruby or herbaceous twinner with a woody root stock found through out the low hills and plains of India from Nepal and lower Bengal to Chittagong, in the Deccan Peninsula from Konkan south wards and in Sri Lanka up to 3000 feet. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 314 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 32 Artemisia vulgaris Indian worm wood H-Nagdona B-Nagdona M-Dhordavana T-Machipatri In Indian medicine, leaves and flower tops are administered in the form of infusion in nervous and spasmodic affection. It is also said to be antiseptic, expectorant and anthelmintic. The oil has been found to be good larvicidal like kerosene although it is only feeble insecticide. A tall aromatic shrub found through out the mountainous district of India, ascending to 12000 feet in the western Himalayas and to 5000-8000' in Sikkim, Khasi, Ava and Martaban mountains. 33 Artocarpus heterophyllus Jack tree H-Kathal B-Kanthal M-Phanas T-Pilapalam Kan-Halasu Mal-Chakka Extract of the heartwood with alum is used by Buddhist priests for dyeing their robes yellow. The wood yields yellow colouring matter, morin and cyanomacilurin. Tannin is present in small quantity (3.3%) in the bark. A large tropical fruit tree with a dense crown, reaching a height of 50 feet or more. The plant is indigenous to India, probably the western ghats where it grows wild.