 Native species like mahseers (Tor putitora and Tor tor), snow trouts (Schizothoraichthys esocinus, S. progastus, Schizothorax richardsonii, S. niger, and S. curvifrons) have been bred and promoted in the culture system. ICAR-DCFR has also developed induced breeding and seed rearing technologies for Schizothoraichthys niger, S. esocinus, S. curvifrons, S. micropogon and Schizothorax richardsonii through artificial fecundation in running water systems. The seed of golden and chocolate mahseers have been extensively ranched in upland streams, rivers, and lakes to increase their natural population. Apart from the trout, Deccan mahseer (Tor khudree) has received much attention during the last 40 years, mostly due to the commendable work of a privately owned hatchery of Tata Electric Company at Lonavla. The Lonavla hatchery has also developed induced breeding and hatching of T. putitora. Table 3. Milestones in freshwater aquaculture research Year Milestone 1955 Induced breeding of Esomus danricus was achieved using catla pituitary gland extract. 1957 First success was achieved in induced breeding of Cirrhinus reba, followed by induced breeding of three Indian major carps. 1959 Grass carp and silver carp were introduced in India from Hong Kong. 1962 Successful breeding of Chinese carps (grass carp and silver carp). 1967 Development of packages of practices of sewage-fed fish culture. Achievements in Fisheries and Aquaculture in Independent India 187 Year Milestone 1970 Development of packages of practices of paddy-cum-fish culture. 1970s Standardization of composite fish culture through AICRP. 1971 Extraction, preservation and ampouling of fish pituitary hormones. 1980 Development of packages of practices of integrated fish farming. 1982 Large-scale breeding of magur (Clarias magur). 1994 Intensive carp culture technology with a production level of 15 t ha-1 yr-1 developed. 2000- 2010 Technology development of breeding, seed production and grow-out farming of several freshwater fish species, viz. minor carps/barbs, murrels and important catfish species. 2.2.2. Brackishwater aquaculture The brackishwater environment supports a diverse range of seafood species, including fish, shrimp, crab, seaweed, micro-algae and others. Brackishwater aquaculture has a long history of traditional practices from bheries of West Bengal to pokkali rice fields of Kerala. Brackishwater aquaculture at present is largely confined to a single commodity, the shrimp. The shrimp production in the country currently stands at more than 0.8 Mt (>90% is L. vannamei) from an area of 172,000 hectares, with average productivity of 4070 kg ha-1 crop-1 in 2020. 2.2.2.1. Breeding, seed production and grow-out farming of shrimps and crabs In India, scientific shrimp farming was initiated in Kakdwip Experimental brackishwater fish farm of ICAR-CIFRI, West Bengal. Subsequently, the shrimp breeding and seed production technology was evolved in Narakkal, Kochi by the ICAR-CMFRI (Ponnaiah 2011).