 The results of fungal bioassay established the capability of BjEli1 to restrict the disease lesion size and intensity of the alternaria blight fungus, Alternaria brassicae. Plants of the mustard cultivar BYSR constitutively expressing BjEli2 showed higher expression of several defence genes, and in insect bioassay using aphid nymphs showed significant inhibition of growth and multiplication of aphid population. Development of autotransgenic Asian Catfish Clarias batrachus L: Functional autotransgene constructs having Histone 3 and β-actin promoter driving growth hormone gene along with 3´ regulatory sequences for Clarias batrachus (Indian catfish magur) were made and gene delivery methods were successfully standardized: microinjection in Zebrafish and in magur embryo and sperm mediated electroporation in magur. Autotransgenic Event selection trial in chickpea and pigeon pea and chickpea Pigeon pea Chickpea 31 Salient Achievements of the Projects fish could be made with these constructs and confirmed by three independent assays: PCR, sequencing and southern blotting and functionality of the autotransgene was confirmed by western analysis. Gene-based genetic maps and molecular markers for biotic and abiotic stress tolerance in cultivated groundnut: Among the 52 bacterial and 20 fungal endophytes from the Rann of Kachchh characterized, five fungal and 38 bacterial endophytes were found to tolerate 10% NaCl concentration and 50oC temperature which would be useful in using them to study alleviation of abiotic stress tolerance in groundnut. Off-season flowering and fruiting in mango: Peclobutrazol (PBZ, early flowering inducer hormone) application to advance the flowering in different agro-climatic zones showed success in off-season mango at temperatures as low as 14’C. Furthermore, lower temperature was a limiting factor for producing off-season mangoes. The application of peclobutrazol during March was successful in producing off- season fruits in mango cv Rumani and Totapari at Chitoor in Andhra Pradesh. Two months early harvest of mango cv Totapari, i.e. during March- April significantly boosted the remunerative value of the variety by Rs. 10-15/ kg in Medak district of Andhra Pradesh. The same treatment on cv Dashehari recorded earliness in flowering by 45 days in Warangal district. Market price of early harvested fruits of Dashehari variety of mango was higher by Rs.40/ kg. Mango fruiting in cv Alphonso grown on lateritic coastal rocky areas of Konkan region could be advanced by two months and a half by the PBZ application between 15” May and 15th June and adopting suitable cultural practices. Bioactives and Polysaccharides from Marine and Coastal Bivalves to develop Prospective Nutraceutical Products: Samples of marine/estuarine bivalves collected from Vizhinjam.