 e) Facilitation of institutional convergence: Very often there remain gaps at planning or implementation levels and we witness the malaise of duplication of efforts, sporadic efforts or incoherent efforts. There should be activation of inter-departmental working groups at district and block levels for effective channelization of the schemes, provisions and welfare measures. Here there could be complementary arrangement of both top-down as well as bottom-up planning and engagement of public, private and farmers institutions/ organizations. f) Creation of custom hired services of farm machineries for efficiency Today’s agriculture needs precise as well as timely management of tillage, inputs, and inter-cultural as well as other farm operations. Mechanization is the need of the hour for time-, energy-, and cost-effective accomplishment of farm operations. Gandhiji is often criticized that he was against mechanization but in fact he only disfavoured mechanization which robed the hands of job. He did not criticize innovations for efficiency. He was the one who initiated crowd- funding for innovations in spinning wheel which could be efficient. Setting up new and strengthening of existing custom-hire centres with provision of more number of machines and better norms should be focused upon to enhance accessibility of farm machineries and reduction of drudgery. g) Water resource development: Water will be crucial for not only agriculture but also for drinking and more importantly for hand wash and sanitization. The measures like roof water harvesting, community ponds and tanks, and on-farm water conservation will be critical. Support could be extended for such interventions. The govt has laid emphasis upon solar based water pumps as green way of farming. The grassroots organizations could take up the role of collective interventions in their areas for water harvesting through low cost structures. The “Jal Saheli” groups in Bundelkhand have done commendable work in augmentation of water security for the villages. Voluntary organizations and farmers organizations could also join hands in implementation as well as participatory monitoring of water related govt interventions. Emerging technologies including sensor based on-farm irrigation management need to be promoted for efficient water management and attainment of desired crop productivity. h) Linking farmers to markets: Efforts need to be made towards devising gainful as well as trustworthy ecosystem and mechanism for linking farmers, particularly the small farmers, to markets. Recent farm bills amply stress upon market and income-oriented farming. Modified procedures have indicated ease of business in contract farming. However, there 194 is need for trust building as well as collective action.