e Department of Agriculture VATICA Value Addition and Technology Incubation Centre in Agriculture VCRMC Village Climate Resilience Management Committee VHF Vacuum Hermetic Fumigation VNN Viral Nervous Necrosis WDCM World Data Centre for Microorganisms WFC World Fish Centre WFCC World Federation for Culture Collections WIPO World Intellectual Property Organization WSN Wireless Sensor Networks WTC-ER Water Technology Center for Eastern Region Prime Minister Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru examining growth of the wheat plant 1 Chapter 1 Indian Agriculture: Achievements and Aspirations T Mohapatra1, PK Rout1 and H Pathak2 1Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi 2ICAR-National Institute of Abiotic Stress Management, Baramati, Maharashtra Summary Indian agriculture, which began around 11,000 years before present (BP) with the domestication of animals and early cultivation of plants, has made significant progress over the millennia. This found place in the ancient scripts of Vedas, Upanishadas, Ramayana and Mahabharata. Agriculture in India has been a complex mosaic of distinct agro-ecosystems, differentiated by climatic, soil, vegetation and other natural features, often heterogeneous, unorganized and subjected to vagaries from ‘seed to market’. Historically, food shortage in pre-independent India caused serious impacts as agriculture was monsoon-dependent and unfavourable rains and natural calamities resulted in crop failures. The planning process in the independent India, therefore identified agriculture as the most prioritized sector and emphasized that ‘everything can wait but agriculture’. In spite of the odds of uncertain weather, declining soil health, increasing atmospheric temperature and emergence of virulent pest and pathogens, which are continuing post-independence, Indian agriculture achieved several landmarks primarily due to science-led agricultural development. The most signifying milestone has been food security that brought confidence and raised the country’s stature globally. We must not forget the ill memories of ‘ship to mouth’ till 1950s. It is the toiling work of millions of our farmers, scientists and the planners that transformed India from a food deficit country to a food surplus and net food exporter nation. The food grain production, which was merely 51 million tons (Mt) in 1950/51 increased over 6 times to over 314 Mt in 2022. The country has also become the largest producer of milk, pulses and jute and second largest producer of rice, wheat, cotton, fruits and vegetables in the world. India is also one of the leading producers of spices, fish, poultry, livestock and plantation crops. However, Indian agriculture continues to battle several intimidating challenges of increasing productivity, profitability and resilience at the backdrop of increasing population, depleting natural resource base, aggravating climate change and reducing farm income.