 The pseudostem Scutcher was also utilized as a fish feed as cattle feed in fish culture cost high. Hence scutcher based vermicompost used as a fish feed by partially substituting with the cattle feed. Conclusion Banana is considered such a crop which produces huge q u a n t i t y o f fresh biomass and so far not much attention has been given t o w a r d s t h e waste utilization. Every year million tonnage of banana pseudostem are dumped as waste and many farmers facing many difficulties in disposing the pseudostem. In order to utilize this residue in an effective and profitable way, many agricultural universities and national institutions are undergoing many research and findings. NAIP (Component II) also plays an important role in sanctioning to improve value chain on utilization of pseudostem which can strengthen the condition of banana growers, entrepreneurs, policy makers and industry people. Using pseudostem many products can be developed which have the capacity to generate additional income and also provides eco-friendly raw materials to the industries like pharmaceuticals, textile, paper, confectionary, etc. It can also overcome unemployment problems in rural areas. Especially women can play a major role in this sector which can improve social and economic conditions of the family. For further interaction, please write to: Raghavendra H R, Post-harvest technology, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012. Corresponding author e-mail: raghuhorti53@gmail.com Pickle, natural juice extracted from central core January–February 2021 31 Harsimrat K Bons* Fruit nutrition garden: A new approach towards Food Security and Diversification Establishment of Fruit Nutrition Garden in an area of 625 square meters (25 m length and 25 m wide) can meet daily requirement of balanced diet apart from getting good quality, fresh and naturally ripened fruits without pesticide residue throughout the year. Important points to be considered while establishing fruit nutrition garden is discussed in this article. In Fruit Nutrition Garden, 21 types of fruit plants can be planted which can prove as new approach for diversification of fruit plants. F ruits are integral part of our life and known as protective foods as they are rich source of vitamins, minerals and antioxidants. Major health benefits of fruits are lower risk of cancer, heart disease, blood clots, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and eye health and diabetes. It is a fact that fruits are generally expensive in market and moreover treated by various chemicals which are harmful for our health. With increasing awareness among population especially, urban masses are interested consuming safe fruits which are ripened naturally and without pesticide residue. Even deficiency of important nutrients like iron, calcium, vitamins, etc.