 Looking at the shortcomings of district-level Agromet advisory services, AICRPAM Major extreme weather events experienced in India since 2000 Indian Farming 70 January 2025 conceptualized and implemented a Micro-level Agromet Advisory Services (MAAS) in pilot mode in 50 selected villages across 20 states of the country in 2011. Further, several research outputs from AICRPAM’s research themes are incorporated and enriched in the Agromet Advisory bulletins. These scientific inputs and improved preparation processes attracted the country’s leading weather provider IMD to collaborate with the AICRPAM unit to develop the National Agromet Advisory Services bulletin every week and also conceptualized and developed Dynamic Crop Weather Calendar, a DSS system for generating very precise information on the sowing time of the crop, crop water requirements, LGP, irrigation water requirements etc. District agriculture contingency plans District-level contingency plans are technical documents containing integrated information on agriculture and allied sectors (i.e., field crops, horticulture, livestock, poultry, fisheries) and technological solutions for all the major weather-related aberrations including extreme events viz., droughts, floods, heat waves, cold wave, untimely and high- intensity rainfall, frost, hailstorms, pest and disease outbreaks and are aimed to be utilized by district authorities. These contingency plans contain information on alternate crop varieties/ crops to be chosen in case of delay in the onset of monsoon or early-season drought, and also on agronomic measures for mid and terminal- season droughts. Further, strategies for contingency situations in livestock, poultry, and fisheries have also been included. Various interventions need to be taken during a delay in canal water release and its later release in irrigated regions and related aspects are also dealt with. The district-based contingency plans are prepared for 650 districts of the country and hosted on ICAR / DAC websites (http://agricoop.nic.in/acp. html, http://icar-crida.res.in/) and circulated to all state agriculture departments. Augmenting crop contingency plans with weather forecasts Once crop contingency plans are prepared based on agro-ecological region, information on soil type, rainfall pattern, type and frequency of extreme weather events, crops/cropping systems prevalent in the area, sowing/planting window, acreage under rainfed/ irrigated agriculture, etc., its implementation is mainly dependent on the weather forecast and agromet advisory.