 Industry and universities partnership is essential if industry is to obtain well-trained agricultural professionals in cutting edge technologies for international competitiveness. Despite the loudable contribution made by the ICAR- Agricultural Universities system towards technology generation, human resource development and extension education, India’s present higher agricultural educational scenario suffers from low access, not meeting quality standards, low funding, gender inequality, non-contemporary course curricula and delivery methods, inbreeding, lack of faculty-competence in cutting edge technologies etc. The State Agricultural Universities are established through the Legislative Act of the respective State and with major financial support from them leading to administrative and policy controls. ICAR, is vested with the authority to promote and ensure quality assurance in agricultural education, as per the decision of the cabinet in 1973. In discharge of this function the ICAR has taken a number of initiatives for agricultural education. During Agricultural Human Resource Development Project (1995-2000), many reforms were put in place which inter-alia include establishment of the Accreditation Board for quality assurance, measures for reducing inbreeding, new curriculum and delivery, faculty competence enhancement, infrastructure development in select four universities, access to information, modernization of libraries, emphasis on education technology etc. The ICAR continues to provide professional and partial financial support to them for enhancing the quality, relevance and access of higher agricultural education. Currently, the support is for policy, quality assurance through accreditation, common academic regulations, course curricula and delivery systems, improvement of faculty competence, promoting excellence through scholarships/fellowships, Niche areas of excellence, experiential learning units, National Professors, National Fellows, Emeritus Scientists, admissions of students through All India competitions, modernization of 4 farms, IT support and up-gradation of infrastructure and facilities including libraries. Recent initiatives include new UG and PG curriculum based on IV Deans’ Committee and National Core Group recommendations, introduction of experiential learning and Niche Areas of Excellence, availability of 1700 Journals on line through CeRA, fellowships (SRF and International Fellowships) and NTS, strengthening Centres of Advanced Studies, introduction of the Adjunct Professor Scheme and modernization of AU farms etc. In addition, good support has been provided under X and XI Plan for improving and modernizing infrastructure for teaching-learning. These measures have led to reversing trend of the decline in the quality of agricultural education though much needs to be done to achieve our target.