 Black colour shade nets are most efficient in reduction of temperature compared to other colours like green, white or silver, etc. as the black colour absorbs the maximum amount of heat. Mostly leafy vegetables like beet leaf and green coriander are preferred to be grown under shade-nets, but it is also suitable for growing early cauliflower and radish cultivation during June to September months. Insect proof net-houses It is used to minimize the use of pesticides in crop production. It also enables us to produce healthy and hygienic vegetables and good quality seeds. Insect proof net-houses are preferred structure for several vegetables (brinjal, capsicum, cauliflower, tomato, okra and cucurbits etc,) and some fruit crops like papaya etc. which have more problems of pest or viruses. Insect management by use of these structures will reduce the load of pesticides in the crop and will increase the demand in market as consumer prefer no/low pesticide exposed crop specifically vegetables and fruits. Nets of 40 and higher mesh are effective means of controlling most of the flying insects. Pests and other vectors population can effectively be checked by using insect proof net-houses that creates a physical barrier between crop and open environment. These insect proof net-houses can be erected by providing an aluminium coated shade-nets (aluminet) approximately 1.0 m above the roof top of the net-houses with movable facility and with two door waiting area facility. The structures can be fabricated with a cost of 700–800/m2 having 40–50% shading net covering during critical summer months (April–June) and with transparent plastic covering during critical winter months (December– February) under arid and semi-arid climatic conditions. High value vegetables like tomato, cherry tomato (crop duration 7–8 months), two crops of parthenocarpic cucumber (summer and post rainy season) and capsicum (crop duration 7–8 months) can be produced. Walk-in tunnels These are simple, temporary and low-cost structures erected on half-inch GI pipes covered with transparent plastic with 200-micron thickness and the height of the tunnel is around 2.0-2.5 m with a width of around 4 m and accommodate almost 2 to 3 beds. This structure is covered with UV film, suitable for all types of crops, flowers and vegetables. These structures are small in size and low in cost therefore are generally acceptable by farmers. Basically, these are temporary and really low-cost structures since the fixed investment made on plastic can last for 5–6 years and the investment made on GI pipes can last for more than 20 years if proper care is taken. The ideal size has been standardized for optimum cross ventilation, to have a single piece coverage of above sized structure with plastic commonly manufactured by firms of dimension 7 × 30 m or 7 × 36 m and a length of nearly 25–30 m is very suitable for honey bees to fly from one end to other for pollination.