 For the public transport system, back in 2006 (revised in 2014), the National Urban Transport Policy (NUTP) was launched to offer sustainable transport facilities, keeping geographical and socio-economical needs in mind. The prog- ress in implementation so far has been plodding. While over- all road connectivity and vehicle technology have been improved, the pace has not been the same for public trans- port. Speciﬁcally for Non-Motorised Transportation (NMT), there has been limited visible improvement in city pedes- trian pathways and bicycle tracks (Pandit & Sharma, 2022). To limit air pollution, the Green Urban Mobility Scheme was introduced in 2017; the promotion of NMT, induction of new hybrid/electric vehicles for public transport, and adoption of an Intelligent Transport System (ITS) were the primary objectives. This was also meant to create an impetus for Smart City Mission and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation. Alongside, the National Transit Ori- ented Development (TOD) policy was introduced to acceler- ate the mass-transport-oriented development of cities. Like passenger transport, freight transport accounts for a signiﬁcant fraction of total on-road movement, but sustain- able freight transport is often overlooked in urban transport discussions (Pani, Sahu, & Majumdar, 2022). Over the last 34 decades, freight transport by road has increased signiﬁ- cantly while transport by rail has been ﬂat (see Figure 8). The 20212022 union budget targeted to increase the rail freight share from 27% to 45% by 2030 in the National Rail Plan; however, achievement of these targets would require timely execution of the planned strategies. NUTP acknowl- edged the signiﬁcant growth in freight transport and recom- mended an action plan, but the country’s overall freight policy has been nascent (Raj et al., 2022). After the launch of PM GatiShakti mission, the National Logistics Policy (NLP) came into effect in 2022 to improve infrastructure and efﬁ- ciency and reduce logistics costs. NLP includes green freight measures but lacks direct initiatives to improve environmen- tal sustainability; the primary focus has been on economic development and cost savings. Regarding freights within the city, some major cities have introduced speciﬁc rules, but none have developed an urban freight transport plan or set freight sustainability-related targets (Gota & Qamar, 2021). Many states have taken initia- tives to restrict heavy vehicles through city centres to reduce air pollution and trafﬁc congestion. However, that has led to multiple trips by smaller trucks or vans for last- mile deliveries, limiting the net beneﬁt. Amidst all the policies for new vehicles, it was necessary to phase out old, highly polluting passenger and commercial vehicles and also to ensure responsible management of EV battery waste.