 Grading size in kiwifruit Grade Size A grade 100 g B grade 70–100 g C grade Below 70 g In India, kiwifruit is typically packed in cardboard boxes weighing 3–5 kg, while in other countries; they are packed in tray packs consisting of an outer case, a plastic tray, corrugated strawboard and a cardboard lid, with 33 fruits of 100 g weight in each tray. Kiwifruit has a good storage life, with the ability to be stored at ambient temperature for 6–7 weeks, but for longer storage periods, refrigeration is necessary. Additionally, kiwifruit is used in a variety of processed products, including jam, jelly, candy, squash and wine. SUMMARY Kiwifruit has a bright future prospect in Himachal Pradesh, as well as in other hilly regions of the country. The fruit has been assessed as one of the important future commercial fruits due to its high return per unit area and consistent yields without any crop failure. According to reports, farmers in Himachal Pradesh can earn about `4–5 lakhs per hectare annually from kiwifruit cultivation. Kiwifruit cultivation in Himachal Pradesh is relatively new; there is tremendous scope for its development and expansion. With proper training and support, kiwifruit could be developed into a vital industry for sustainable economic growth in hilly regions. As such, there is a need for continued research and development in this field to improve the quality and productivity of kiwifruit cultivation in the country. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: rajeev_raina13@indiatimes.com Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana This Yojana brings • Per Drop More Crop. • Inputs from MoWR and DOLR received. • Increase in agricultural production and productivity and enhance farm income. Know Krishi Unnati Yojana The Krishi Unnati Yojana, a central sector scheme, is envisaged as umbrella programme for focusing on food security, by merging schemes on Soil-health Card, Integrated Scheme on Agricultural Co-operation and Agricultural Marketing, National Mission on Agriculture Extension, Horticulture Development, Price Stabilization Fund, National Mission on Sustainable Agriculture and other programmes. Indian Farming 37 September 2023 Farmer’s fertilizer practices in wheat: A case study for high yield in north western plain zone S C Tripathi*, Nitesh Kumar and Shiv Ram Samota ICAR-Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley Research, Karnal, Haryana 132 001 A total of 100 farmers from Karnal district of Haryana were chosen for a study and their soils were analysed and fertilizer practices and yields in wheat were recorded. The results indicate that 27% of farmers are applying a low amount of nitrogen (while the remaining 71% of farmers are applying a higher amount of nitrogen), and all farmers are applying a lower quantity of phosphorus (P2O5) and no potassium (K) compared to the recommended fertilizer levels (150-60-40 kg N-P2O5- K2O/ha). Farmers tended to apply higher nitrogen levels in the hopes of achieving greater yields.