 AMF, glomalin and soil organic carbon as influenced by tillage and weed management practices in conservation agriculture Adoption of conservation agriculture has clearly demonstrated the capability of conservation tillage system (zero tillage + retention of crop residues) to bolster inhabitant AMF and other soil quality related parameters (SOC, SMBC, β-galactosidase activity and water stable aggregate size of 1–2 mm). A minimally disturbed soil environment alike zero tillage with well-managed crop residues as examined in this present investigation has apparently exhibited a significantly higher AMF colonization percentage (AMF-CP) over conventionally tilled soils. This greater AMF-CP is ascribed to the intact filamentous fungal network and a shift in the AMF structural populace under no-till which bolsters greater hyphal volume. Besides, Glomus species being the game changer to prepotent maize roots colonization [4] could probably contribute towards enhancing AMF-CP in conjunction with conservation tillage (ZT(C) + SrR- ZT(M) + CR-ZT(Sr) + MS). The contents of glomalin followed the trend alike AMF-CP being significantly greater under conservation tillage. The decline in glomalin content (GC) observed in the CT(C)-CT(M)-Fallow (NSr) (farmers practice) and CT(C)-ZT(M)-ZT(Sr) concur with the findings of Bedini et al. [45] who have reported the decline in GC under continuously tilled monoculture maize experimental plots although the field trial was done in the temporal zones. Earlier studies have apparently shown that tilling of the soil creates disturbance which ultimately result in decreased root colonization [46] accompanied by a greater interference in the extra-radical mycelium. This could directly lead towards the declined glomalin content in soil. The AMF-CP and SOC followed the same trend and were significantly greater under conservation tillage system. Adoption of zero tillage coupled with crop residues retention promote accumulation of biomass in the soil. Through rhizodeposition, approximately forty percent of photosynthetically stable carbon goes into the soil environment [47] which can considerably contribute towards carbon. Other than that, the carbon held in soil carbohydrates considerably contributes up to 20 % of soil organic matter (SOM) [47]. In like manner, glomalin-carbon having glycoprotein is anticipated to considerably supply SOM. This suggests greater SOC and GRSP Table 5 Correlation matrix of AMF-CP, EE-GRSP, T-GRSP and other essential related soil quality indicators (SOC, SMBC, β-GaA and WSA1–2mm) as influenced by contrasting tillage practices and weed management options in conservation agriculture (CA) after 3rd year during maize (in the 8th cropping cycle). AMF-CP EE-GRSP T-GRSP SOC β-GaA SMBC WSA1–2mm SY CEY AMF-CP 1 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ EE-GRSP 0.611a 1 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ T-GRSP 0.662a 0.719b 1 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ SOC 0.951b 0.633a 0.756b 1 ​ ​ ​ ​ β-GaA 0.916b 0.664a 0.832b 0.958b 1 ​ ​ ​ SMBC 0.872b 0.657a 0.761b 0.947b 0.