 Every care has been taken to provide the correct and up to date information along with references thereof. However, neither TEC nor the authors shall be liable for any loss or damage whatsoever, including incidental or consequential loss or damage, arising out of, or in connection with any use of or reliance on the information in this document. In case of any doubt or query, readers are requested to refer to the detailed relevant documents. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre St. Aes faa, awa. UIA AAT great fast DR. NEERAJ MITTAL, IAs ; Government of India Secretary Ministry of Communications Department of Telecommunications Message | am delighted that Telecommunication Engineering Centre (TEC) and Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) have collaborated to prepare a Technical Report on Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming, which will be useful as a reference document for agricultural scientists, academia, startups and other related stakeholders. The integration of smart technologies into agriculture has revolutionized traditional farming methods, harnessing the capabilities of cutting-edge technologies like the Internet of Things (loT), Artificial Intelligence (Al)/Machine Learning (ML) and precision farming techniques. This paradigm shift holds immense potential to promote the adoption of sustainable agricultural practices, offering substantial opportunities to bolster productivity and profitability across the agricultural value chain. The convergence of digital technologies and agriculture not only promises enhanced productivity and profitability but also addresses crucial challenges such as climate change, resource scarcity and the escalating demand for food. Digital agriculture will enable a comprehensive approach to sustainable food production. In addition to discussing various cellular & non-cellular communication technologies and emerging technologies such as loT and AI/ML, the report also highlights various ML algorithms commonly used in predicting crop traits, deep learning models for yield prediction, pest and diseases detection, weed detection, soil health management, crop quality management, smart irrigation and livestock management. Furthermore, it delves into the applications of big data analytics, hyperspectral data, blockchain, precision farming techniques and standards used in agriculture. | extend my heartfelt appreciation to the Telecommunication Engineering Centre and the Indian Council of Agricultural Research for their diligent efforts in producing this report. | wish them continued success in their future endeavors. New Delhi feat 12" March, 2024 (Neeraj Mittal) HATA. 210, AA TAA, 20, siete Wy, 7g feeeil-110001 / Room No. 210, Sanchar Bhawan, 20, Ashoka Road, New Delhi - 110001 Ph. : +91-11-23719898, Fax : +91-11-23711514, E-mail : secy-telecom@gov.