 Gender Knowledge portal A user-friendly gender knowledge portal was developed. The portal would provide the stakeholders access to gender related information under thematic areas, viz. women friendly technology, programmes and policies, information and statistics, resources and gender based knowledge. The portal would host different databases and information capsules generated through studies under the project and compiled from other sources. The portal would provide a platform to the R&D stakeholders working on gender issues and women empowerment to share their information and facilitate cross learning among professionals. Information and databases on the portal may serve as sources of inputs for researchers in formulation of projects. Empowerment of farm women for improved quality of life Aqua and poultry feed from fish and shellfish wastes Fish silage was prepared from fish dressing waste, which otherwise go as waste, obtained from the local market. The suitability of fish silage to be used as feed ingredient in poultry feed was tested through experiments in layering quails, Vanaraja and broiler birds. Supplementation of acid treated fish silage up to 10% in broiler diet reduced the feed cost per kilogram weight of the bird by ` 5. AICRP on Home Science Home Science Extension and Communication Management component has projects – Dynamics and performance of women groups in agriculture and allied sectors and Techno socio-economic dimensions of women empowerment, under which data on group dynamics, activities and income generation, collaborative centre 40 households were selected for conducting intervention and action research, and 160 households for interventions. At each centre, 40 nutrition gardens were established in this year to reduce the malnourishment problem in children and women, especially anaemia and vitamin A deficiency and focus was given on green / yellow and protein rich vegetables. Seeds of spinach, fenugreek, carrot, turnip, coriander, amaranth were distributed besides seedlings of rabi tomato, cauliflower. Emphasis was given to grow vegetables without using any insecticides/pesticides, and intake of such vegetables will help them improve the health status. Gender knowledge system in agriculture The project is being carried out in collaborative mode with partners, viz. ICAR-Central Institute of Cotton Research, Nagpur; ICAR Research Complex for NEH regions, Meghalaya; and Tamil Nadu University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (TANUVAS), Chennai. The main objectives were to develop gender SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 118 entrepreneurship and empowerment status were collected from 2,832 SHGs in the selected districts of 10 states. A campaign was organized for creating awareness on kitchen and herbal gardens and vermin composting units.