 There are a number of steps involved in translating these minerals into fertilizers using a matrix of slowly decomposing C compounds prepared by chemically treating mixture of leonardite (estimated reserves 2.05 billion tonnes) and cellulosic waste. This C containing matrix is used by a range of native heterotrophic P and K solubilizing micro-organisms for their growth, and subsequently releases P and K by solubilizing low- grade rock-phosphate and feldspar, respectively. The efficacy of these mineral fertilizers was tested on various crops, and gave comparable yield obtained with conventional P (Diammonium phosphate) and K (Muriate of Potash) fertilizers with about 50% lower cost and hence could be an effective substitute of DAP and MoP. Efficient Zn solubilising biofertilizer: A new zinc solubilising biofertilizer Pseudomonas striata capable of solubilising complexed zinc in soil has been developed for Zn deficient soils of Maharashtra under All India Network Project on Soil Biodiversity—Biofertilizers. This strain was found to be more efficient over commonly used organisms like Bacillus megaterium. About 26% higher seed yield of pigeon pea was obtained in seed treated with Pseudomonas striata than uninoculated control. An INM package consisting of seed treatment with liquid Pseudomonas striata as zinc solubilizer @ 100 ml/10 kg seed + 30 kg ZnSO4/ha along with recommended dose of fertilizers was recommended for pigeon pea. Mechanized seed coating of biofertilizers: A machine was developed for coating of seeds with different microbial formulations under All India Network Project on Soil Biodiversity —Biofertilizers. Organisms like Rhizobium, Azotobacter, Azospirillum, Phosphorus solubilizing bacteria can be coated on seeds one after other with a sticking agent, hydroxyl propyl methylcellulose through film-coating method. The formulation prolonged the survival of the inoculants on the seed (about 103 cfu/seed) up to 90 days of storage and enhanced the yield of maize, ragi, red gram and groundnut by 17–34%, with a cost-benefit ratio of 1.31 : 2.97. Standardized seed coating machine for biofertilizer application. Farmers can coat their seeds with required biofertilizers uniformly. Soil biological health kit Soil health largely rely on soil biodiversity and soil biological processes. A kit was developed under All India Network Project on Soil Biodiversity— Biofertilizers to evaluate soil biological health based on substrate induced respiration. The kit contains assemblies to incubate soil with a defined substrate along with an indicator “Gel probe” which changes its colour based on the amount of CO2 evolved from soil. The colour- change of the gel exhibits positive correlation with actual measure of CO2 and soil biological quality index. The gel probe’s colour change discriminates the soils based on their health status. The kit is a simple, quick and cost-effective method without any instrumentation.