 Gandhiji also described “The cow is a poem of pity; One reads pity in the gentle animal. She is the mother to millions of Indian mankind. Protection of the cow means protection of the whole dumb creation of God”. He further stressed upon the importance of the cow by saying that “cow in India was the best comparison; she was the giver of plenty. Not only did she give milk, but she also made agriculture possible”. He added that “Mother Cow is as useful dead as when she is alive. We can make use of every part of her body-her flesh, her bones, her intestines, her horns and her skin. Well, I say this not to disparage the mother who gives us birth, but in order to show you the substantial reasons for my worshipping the cow”. He was staunch supporter of cow protection and Gauseva. He saw the emergence of cow protection in Indian religion as “one of the most wonderful phenomena in human evolution. It takes the human being beyond this species”. The protection of cows is a passion with Gandhi as he said, “I would not kill a human being for the protection of a cow, as I will not kill a cow for saving a human life, be it ever so precious.” He believed that cow slaughter can never be stopped by law. Knowledge, education, and the spirit of kindliness towards her alone can put an end to it. Mahatma believed that cow can be saved without having to kill her off when she ceases to give the economic quantity of milk or when one becomes otherwise an uneconomic burden in following ways: 1) by the Hindus performing their duty towards the cow and her progeny: If they did so, our cattle would be the pride of India and the world. The contrary is the case today; 2) learning the science of cattle-breeding: Today there is perfect anarchy in this work; 3) replacing the present cruel method of castration by the humane method practiced in the West and 4) by thorough reform of the PINJRAPOLES (institutions for aged cows) of India, which are today, as a rule, managed ignorantly and without any plan by men who do not know their work. The excerpts from “And Gandhi Came Alive” by Megha Bajaj depict the vision of Gandhi for genetic improvement of cattle as it says, “Gandhi had always believed in scientific practicality. 29 He had suggested to Manibhai Desai to take up cattle development to ensure a good supply of milk. Although India had the largest cattle population in the world, it had one of the lowest milk yields; from an economic point of view the average Indian cow was a liability to its owner. Good milk-yielding cows, he reasoned, could increase both the nutrition and the income of the local farmers. In 1948, he started a herd using the local Gir breed. The herd made an excellent progress that in 1953; the then Bombay state donated eight top quality heifers, one bull calf and one adult bull for the herd’s further improvement. From 1957 through 1962, the Urulikanchan Ashram’s cows captured first and second prizes for highest milk yield in the country.