 (vi) Be responsible for preparation of expenditure and other statements relating to his Ministry as required by regulations, guidelines or directives issued by Ministry of Finance. (vii) Shall ensure that his Ministry maintains full and proper records of financial transactions and adopts systems and procedures that will at all time afford internal controls. (viii) Shall ensure that his Ministry follows the Government procurement procedure for execution of works, as well as for procurement of services and supplies and implements it in a fair, equitable, transparent, competitive and cost-effective manner. (ix) Shall take effective and appropriate steps to ensure his Ministry:- (a) Collects all moneys due to the Government and (b) Avoids unauthorized, irregular and wasteful expenditure. 3. As per Para 1.2.2 of Civil Accounts Manual, the Chief Controller of Accounts for and on behalf of the Chief Accounting Authority is responsible for :- a) Arranging all payments through the Pay and Accounts Offices/Principal Accounts Office except where the Drawing and Disbursing Officers are authorized to make certain types of payments. Note: Any addition proposed to the list of cheque drawing D.D.Os included in the Scheme of Departmentalization of Accounts of a Ministry/Department would require the specific approval of the Controller General of Accounts, Ministry of Finance. 24 (b) Compilation and consolidation of accounts of the Ministry/ Department and their submission in the form prescribed, to the Controller General of Accounts; preparation of Annual Appropriation Accounts for the Demands for Grants of his Ministry/Department, getting them duly audited and submitting them to the CGA, duly signed by the Chief Accounting Authority. (c) Arranging internal inspection of payment and accounts records maintained by the various subordinate formations and Pay and Accounts Offices of the Department and inspection of records pertaining to transaction of Government Ministries / Departments, maintained in Public Sector Banks. 4. The Chief Controller of Accounts, Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare performs his duties with the assistance of two Controller of Accounts, one Assistant Controller of Accounts, three Pr. Accounts Officers (Admn., Accounts and IAW) at HQ and with the help of ten Pay and Accounts Offices of Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare . Zonal Internal Audit parties headed by Assistant Accounts Officer is also stationed at Cochin whose works is being monitored by Internal Audit wing at HQ. The details regarding distribution of work in the Office of Chief Controller of Accounts are given at Exhibit ‘A’. 5. The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare have 20 CDDOs, 138 NCDDOs and 22 NCDDOs to CDDO. The Non-Cheque Drawing DDOs submit bills to the Pay and Accounts Offices under pre-check system of payment. Accounting information Flow chart is given at Exhibit ‘B’. 6. As per Para 1.2.