 In Kharif, these soils are ideal for rice, irri- gated ragi, sugarcane, sweet potato, green manure crops, irrigated groundnut, and chilies; in rabi, these soils are suitable for jowar, maize, chilies, and tobacco. They are also great for citrus groves ( Rajasekhar et al., 2018 ; Kumar et al., 2022a ; Golla et al., 2022 ). 3.4. Slope The slope characteristics of a location are extremely impor- tant in land management research. This categorization helps high- 5 B.N. Anusha, K.R. Babu, B.P. Kumar et al. Geosystems and Geoenvironment 2 (2023) 100131 light the major limiting variables for certain applications. Gradi- ent constraints are notably important in transportation and agri- culture. Different classiﬁcations are in vogue. Based on the work of Crofts (1973) and taking into consideration, the overall mor- phological features and the developmental activities in the dis- trict, the areas have been divided into ﬁve zones ( Fig. 3 d)., viz: (i) below 2% (Mostly consists of alluvial and colluvial areas) and a part of pediplain suitable for irrigation (ii) 2 to 5% (Consists mostly of pediplain area. Suitable for dryland farming) (iii) 5% to 15% (Most of the area fall in the dissected pediment. Suitable for pastures, farm forests, and grassland) (iv) 15% to 30% (Consists of the dissected pediment and also the denuded hilly areas. Suitable for forestry and also pastures) and (v) over 30% of slopes (Mostly constitute the denuded hilly areas. Suitable for forests wherever there is suﬃcient soil cover and weathered zone. Others for quarrying). 3.5. LULC LULC plays a vital role in analyzing the region’s capability for the LSA Study, utilizing satellite data for a complete understand- ing of the year. LULC is a critical component in the testing, preser- vation, preparation, and assessment of global capital ( Shen et al., 2019 ; Badapalli et al., 2021 ). LULC improvements would be depen- dent on ecological and supportive growth for any area’s economic expansion. Even as the world’s population grows, the destruction of trees, deforestation and the rise in global temperatures are all bad for the globe. Categories such as vegetation, waterbody, waste- land, and developed areas are deﬁned in the ERDAS Imagine study ﬁeld. Land deprived of scrub and stony waste is found in the re- search region, which aids in the identiﬁcation of land suitable for forestation ( Fig. 3 e). 3.6. Drainage density (DD) The DD pattern of an area is determined by the presence and collection of bedrock plants, soil precipitation absorption, and slant inclination. Because the research ﬁeld is dominated by granitic ter- rain, the tendency of dendritic drainage is evident ( Sonawane et al., 2016 ). The investigation’s drainage planning emerges for fewer sources. In meters, the seepage architecture was removed from the ASTER DEM. The drainage thickness ﬁle was speciﬁed by the ma- trix properties, and the focal point of the lattice was mapped using ArcGIS software.