 Mechanism of hormone action at cellular and sub – cellular levels. 57 Feedback control of hormone secretion. Hypothalamic – hypophyseal axis. It should include (i) Hypothalamic – hypophyseal axis controlling secretions from thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal and gonads, (ii) Endocrine control of general metalbolism. Releasing and inhibiting factors. Pineal gland and its hormones. Hormones of hypophysis and all other endocrine glands. Mechanisms of different hormone actions. Endocrine disorders. Unit 9: Reproduction Gonadal hormones and their functions in male and female. Neuroendocrine-gonadal axis and feedback regulation. Male spermatogenesis. Accessory sex glands. Sexual behaviour erection, ejaculation etc. Semen evaluation. Factors affecting reproduction. Artificial insemination – collection, preservation and transport and semen diluents. Freezing of semen. Oogenesis. Follicular development. Ovulation. Corpus luteum. Reproductive cycles in animals. Factors affecting reproductive cycles. Female reproductive hormones. Oestrous synchronization, super-ovulation. Sperm capacitation and acrosomal reaction. Sperm and ovum transport in female genital tract. Fertilization. Implantation. Maternal recognition of pregnancy, Maintenance of pregnancy and its hormonal control. Physiology of placenta. Physiology of parturition and its hormonal control. Embryo transfer – collection, preservation, transport and transfer of embryos. Oocyte culture. In vitro fertilization. Mammary gland growth before puberty, during pregnancy and after parturition and its hormonal control. Lactation-Hormonal control of lactation and milk let-down. Maintenance and cessation of lactation. Mammary gland involution. Milk precursors and synthesis of milk constituents. Methods of studying mammary uptake of nutrients, Ultrastructure of lactating mammary gland. Milk composition in different animals. Unit 10: Physiology of Growth Concept and definition. Growth regulation and factors affection prenatal and post-natal growth. Role of growth in production. Growth curve and growth measurement, body conformation. Unit 11: Climate Physiology Physiology of climatic stress. Effects of stress on production and reproduction. Neuro-hormonal regulation of body temperature in homeotherms. Mechanism of adaptation. Photoperiodicity and biological rhythms. Design of shelters / animal houses for different class of livestock for different climate conditions. 58 06 VETERINARY AND ANIMAL SCIENCES-II 6.1 VETERINARY PARASITOLOGY Veterinary Helminthology (Platyhelminthes, Nemanthelminthes), Veterinary Entomology (Insecta and Acarina), Veterinary Protozoology (Parasitic Protozoa), Clinical Parasitology, Parasitic Zoonoses, Diagnostic Parasitology, Management of Livestock Parasitism, Immunoparasitology, Antiparasite drug testing guidelines.