 Microgreen vegetables which can be harvested at a tender stage (8- Multilayer vertical growing system Uniform distribution of Radish seeds on well mixed media 5 days old mustard seeds ready to go under light Harvesting of the crop (5-7 inch) 12 days), under a monitored environment could act as a superfood and dietary buffer to nutritional shortages. Although limited studies have been carried out with regard to the development of a standardized package of practice for growing microgreens due to various reasons. Applications of such technology in practice and popularizing microgreen farming at remote locations without any chemical inputs as a mean of organic vegetable microgreens production will not only aid in providing fresh superfood to the troops in harsh areas but also keep their minds engaged in growing microgreend which could be helpful for minimizing lassitude and refresh their monotonous set of routine. For further information, please contact: 1Department of Horticulture, Sikkim University, Gangtok, Sikkim. 2Department of Horticulture, Assam Agriculture University, Jorhat, Assam. Email: Monktls100@gmail.com, Kimetare29@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 36 Pusa Shobha: Onion for Dehydration Onion is a rich source of iodine and contains catechol and allyl propyl disulfide which is responsible for the antifungal properties and pungency of onion respectively. These compounds are responsible for their antioxidant, antibacterial, anticancer, antidiabetic, and other health-benefiting effects. Pusa Shobha is a new variety of onion having high dry matter (15.24 g/100g), pungency (4.61 µmole/100g), antioxidant (2.53 µmole TE/g), total phenol (18.11 mg/100g), and total soluble solid (16.41°B). The dehydrated onion has large scope of market in domestic as well as foreign market, therefore the study discusses the mechanism of dehydrated onion. Sajeel Ahamad1, Vinod B R1*, Ram Asrey1, Sabina Islam2, Vivek Saurabh1 and Menaka M1 O NION (Allium cepa L.) is an economically important vegetable. It generates the largest foreign exchange around 77% among the vegetables. It is consumed as a fresh, salad, cooked or processed and widely used as a potent source of bioactive compounds carotenoids, flavonoids, polyphenols, anthocyanins, etc. Onion (Allium cepa L.) is an important vegetable crop, commercially grown in different parts of the country for domestic consumption as well as export markets. Onion is known for its flavour, pungency, and medicinal value. It is used as salad, and cooked in various ways like curries, soup, vinegar, and preserved pickles. In India, onion is grown in an area of 1.91 million ha with a total production of 31.27 million MT and productivity of 16.40 T/ha (NHB 2021-2022). India is the second largest producer of onion in the world after China. Maharashtra has the highest share both in area (24.73%) and production (27.72%).