 CS18 i Name of the Applicant Society of Biological Science and Rural Development, Allahabad ii Title National Symposium on Natural Resource Management for Sustainable Agriculture and Rural Development iii Venue and Date(s) 5-6 November, 2016; Vigyan Parishad Hall Maharishi Dayanand Marg, Allahabad. iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 1.00 Lakhs v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(88)/2016-Cdn.(Tech.) vi Recommendations: Š Š Organic farming should be practiced in mass scale to improve soil fertility for crop productivity on sustainable basis. Š Š Application of bio-pesticides should be promoted for control of disease and pests in crops. Similarly, application of pheromones in management of insect-pests of agricultural crops and fish production should also be encouraged. CROP SCIENCE Compendium Salient Recommendations 24 CS19 i Name of the Applicant Department of Biotechnology, Jamia- Hamdard University, New Delhi. ii Title National Seminar on Biotechnology in Healthy Care Challenges and Opportunities iii Venue and Date(s) 18-19 March, 2018 at Convention Centre, Jamia- Hamdard, New Delhi iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.00 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(111)/2016-Cdn.(Tech.) vi Recommendations: Š Š Improvement in traditional medicine needs authentication of raw material and its quality for better therapeutic efficacy. In this respect SCAR markers and metabolic engineering could be used as tools. Š Š The use of Endomycorrhiza and Plant Growth Promoting Rhizobacteria (PGPR) for increasing steviol glycosides in Stevia rebaudiana should be given emphasis, as rebaudioside-A was reported to maintain blood sugar levels in type-2 diabetes. Š Š The use of new antimalarials and the whole leaf extract of metabolically engineered tobacco and Artemisia annua for curing drug resistant malaria can be explored. CS20 i Name of the Applicant National Institute of Science Education and Research, Bhubaneswar ii Title International Conference on Plant Developmental Biology and 3rd National Arabidopsis Meeting iii Venue and Date(s) 12-16 December 2017 at National Institute of Science Education & Research, Bhubaneswar iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.00 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.F.No.24(11)/2017-Cdn.(Tech.) vi Recommendations: Š Š Arabidopsis research may be scaled up for mining agronomically important traits in crop plants for addressing future challenges in agriculture. 25 CS21 i Name of the Society: Indian Phytopathology Society ii Title: Recent Challenges and Opportunities in Sustainable Plant Health Management iii Venue and Date(s): February 26-28, 2019 iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 5.0 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23 (92)/2018-Cdn. (Tech.) vi Recommendations: Š Š Bio-agents are good for plant health management and focus to be given on genetic resistance for sustainable control of plant disease. Š Š Pre-emptive breeding strategy is a must to control rust or other air- borne disease of cereals.