 The basal concentrations of somatic cells count in indigenous and crossbred buffaloes were established and their variations during different seasons, parity and state of lactation ● ●● ●● Insulin administration in mid-luteal phase improved conception rate in cattle ● Chaffed straw utilizes less bioenergy and leaves more energy for productive purpose ● Methanolic extract of tamarind effectively prevented fluorosis ● Kaach significantly reduced methane production in sheep ● Milk progesterone level in sheep indicated the reproductive status of buffaloes ● Fibroblast cells from skin of goat were successfully cultured for cloning ● Pregnancy specific protein observed in goats ● Semen preservation technique developed for field use ● Lead and cadmium levels higher than permissible limits observed in water, feed, fodder and blood samples of animals ● Superovulation protocol developed for ewes ● Cervical moulds developed for ewes to develop suitable transcervical catheter ● Draughtability of the donkey was studied ● Cryopreservation of camel semen was attempted ● 25% glucose solution helped weak chicks to survive DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 116 determined. A 65-kDa placental protein suppressed proliferation of lipopoly- saccharide stimulated-buffalo-lymphocyte in vitro indicating suppression of B-cells. Information on uterine environment changes mainly due to alteration in the biochemical constituents of uterine fluid in buffaloes, is not available. Total protein and RNA content of the uterine fluid varied quantitatively according to stages of the estrus cycle. Two high molecular weight proteins and two low molecular weight peptides were detected in uterine fluid but not found in serum, and relative concentration of different proteins also varied between the two fluids. These changes in the biochemical constituents of uterine fluid may be responsible in the mechanisms involved in signaling between the developing conceptus and dam. Considerable differences in total cytoplasmic progesterone receptors were observed during different stages of estrous cycle. Progesterone receptor levels during the second stage of estrus cycle declined may be due to exposure of uterus to increased level of progesterone and decreased level of estrogen. At the CIRB, Hisar, addition of hormones (FSH, LH) with sera (foetal calf resume calf serum) in maturation and culture media for buffalo oocytes, resulted in higher rate of maturation (90%) and blastocyst formulation (30%) as compared to hormone deficient media (75% and 20%). No significant variation in semen volume was recorded in buffalo bulls in different seasons and it ranged from 2.45 ml in rainy to 2.85 ml in summer. On 4 point scale average activity (varied from 1.65 to 1.85), sperm motality (varied from 57.95 to 62.96), and post thaw motality (varied from 38.22 to 40.64) were studied.