 Genomic selection research for breeding climate resilient wheat. ix. Enhancing linkages and partnerships through training and visiting scientist programs at Mexico and Kenya. Maize: As part of IMIC - Asia (IInd phase), AICRP on maize takes part by i) receiving germplasm from CIMMYT, ii) collaborative evaluation of trials, iii) allocation of hybrid products for registration and commercialization, and iv) training in breeding, phenotyping and data management. With support from ICAR, Quality Protein Maize (QPM) germplasm is being developed. Fodder quality evaluation of QPM lines and hybrids is in progress. In a USAID funded project, CIMMYT is leading a public-private alliance: ‘Heat Tolerant Maize for Asia (HTMA)’. In the last four years: i) future and current heat stress hot-spots in South Asia were identified, ii) monthly ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 65 heat stress distribution maps generated, iii) genome-wide association studies (GWAS) revealed multiple haplotypes that were significantly associated with grain yield and anthesis -silking interval under heat stress. As part of the MAIZE CRP, germplasm with resistance to multiple maize diseases are being developed and shared through AICMIP, iv) A total of 17 heat tolerant hybrids were licensed to Indian maize program partners, including public and private, for large-scale testing and release or registration. Germplasm research: CIMMYT is engaged in developing a genetic resources utilization platform, including: documenting the biodiversity of CIMMYT’s maize and wheat seed bank; developing informatics tools; breeding “bridging germplasm,” which incorporates new diversity in elite wheat and maize; and building professional capacity to use biodiversity to address current and future challenges to maize and wheat production. Sustainable intensification (SI): The sustainable intensification program (SIP) works with public and private sector to implement the SI activities under CRPs on WHEAT, MAIZE and CCAFS as well as bilateral projects for example CSISA, SRFSI, BMZ-Wheat and ICAR-CA.