 The other drivers for substituting rice with crops like maize in rice-wheat cropping system include expanding maize demand for poultry feed; tightening world export-import market and its enhanced productivity and profitability compared to the other crops. Maize-based diversification options Maize has wider compliance and compatibility under different soil and climatic conditions; and cultivated as major crop in sequential cropping systems under various agro-climatic zones of country. Location specific research identified several cropping systems which have better productivity with same or even less use of water than rice–wheat system in different agro- climatic zones of IGPs. For example, at Ludhiana, maize–potato–onion, maize–potato–mungbean systems gave rice equivalent yield of 31.98 and 22.86 t/ha, respectively compared to 12.87 t/ha in case of rice– wheat system (Table 2). Promotion of such cropping systems; however, will require better policy support in Indian Farming 24 December 2023 terms of MSP, assured marketing and trade opportunities. Some of the water efficient productive cropping systems are listed in Table 1. Maize-wheat ranks first among these cropping systems occupying 1.8 m ha area, contributing 3% in the national food basket and ranks third most important after rice-wheat and rice-rice cropping systems. All India coordinated Research Project on Cropping Systems revealed that use of natural resources enhanced with maize-based cropping systems, as compared to rice-wheat and other rice-based cropping systems, and have 100 to 200% higher water-use efficiency at different locations. Higher equivalent yield, gross and net returns was obtained with maize based cropping systems as compared to traditional rice-wheat cropping system (RWCS). Maize-vegetable pea-spring maize and maize-potato- spring maize produced nearly 128% and maize-potato-spring maize results 78% higher maize equivalent yield than RWCS (Table 3). So, inclusion of pulses, oilseeds and vegetables in the system is more beneficial than cereals after cereals, and such inclusion in a sequence changes the economics of the crop sequences. To solve the second generation problems and enhance the farmers’ income, it is need of hour to diversify the traditional rice-wheat cropping system. Some of the following of the maize-based alternative can be adopted for diversification. Maize-wheat-green manure After harvesting of wheat, broadcasts seed of a green manure crop in the last week of April and incorporating after 45-50 days and allow it to decompose for 10-12 days. In such conditions, no more application of organic manure is required for maize in green manured field. Maize-potato-wheat In this cropping system, a short duration maize variety can be sown in mid-June so that field can be vacated by mid-September. After harvesting of early maturing variety of potato planted in end of September, sowing of late variety wheat can be done.