38t/ha (Tripura). The maximum area and production of the vegetables are in Assam, followed by Tripura, Nagaland, and Meghalaya. Besides, numerous underexploited vegetable crops, at subsistence level more than 20 major vegetable crops are grown in the region. However, over 64 % of the total production share is contributed by only five crops that are potato (20.6 %), cabbage (18.20 %), tomato (9.7%), cauliflower (9.32%) and brinjal (6.93 %). Potential vegetable genetic resources The wild ancestor of cucumber, Cucumis sativus var. hardwickii, is found in natural habitats in the foothills particularly in Meghalaya. This species is a potential source of resistance to downy mildew and root knot Indian Horticulture 46 nematodes. Accessions IC410617, IC527419 and IC538130 from Tripura are reported to be free from downy mildew. Genotype IC410617 is reported to be resistant to viral disease. Cucumis hystrix has also been reported as source of resistance to downy mildew. Two accessions (IC420405 and IC 420422) were reported from Mizoram which have orange flesh and high carotenoid content. Cucurbita ficifolia found in Nagaland is a potential source for grafting of cucumber against moisture stress and low temperature. Abelmoschus crinitus and A. pungens are widely distributed in the region. A. crinitus have been reported as resistance to YVMV, OELCV and cercospora blight. Local landraces of Capsicum spp., Bhoot jalokia/ naga viper, king chilli, birds’ eye chilli and dalle khursani are rich in capsaicin and oleoresin content and are effective donor parents for crop improvement. Strengthening of kharif chilli production The farmers traditionally follow the cultivation of rainfed paddy cultivation during Kharif season which is not much economical. Crop diversification is the need of the hour for this region to uplift the socio-economic status of tribal farmers. The second author has explored the possibility of cultivation of Kharif chilli as a substitute crop by replacing paddy in the cropping system. It was noted that during March September, the region faced adverse conditions due to heavy rainfall and poor communication which resulted in paucity of commodities leading to extreme hikes in price of vegetables in the local market including chilli. Therefore, technology of pre-Kharif chilli production can be a boon for the region. The findings of the evaluation studies showed that if the transplanting of chilli is done during March-April and harvesting of green chilli from mid of July to September, the yield of Kharif chilli may go up to 150-200 q/ha with the production cost of ` 1,10,000.0/ha. The growers may get a net return of about ` 3,20,000.0/ha by selling the green chilli fruit @ ` 40-50 per kg. Thus, it shows that there is a good prospect of cultivation of Kharif chilli in the region.