 (2000) 355 Medicinal uses of Leptadenia reticulata Plant and leaf of Leptadenia reticulata contain tocopherols, phytosterols, stogmosterols, beta sitosterol, gamma sitosterol that are used as stimulant, galactogogue, oestrogenic, eye tonic, astringent, agalactia, prolapse of uterus, vagina, abortion, induce heat, soothen hard milkers, induce milk letting. Parabia et al. (2000) 356 Medicinal uses of Leucas aspera, L.cephalotes, L.linifolia Plant, leaf, flower contain essential oils, alkaloids that are used as stimulant, diaphoretic, antipyretic, insecticide, chronic rheumatism, cough, cold, psoriasis, scabies. Parabia et al. (2000) 357 Medicinal uses of Limonia acidissima, L.crenulata, Syn. Naringi crenulata Root, leaf and dried fruit of Limonia acidissima contain marmesin, suberosin, suberenol, coumarin, quinolone, sitosterol and are used as purgative, sudorific, antifermentive, colic, epilepsy. Parabia et al. (2000) 358 Medicinal uses of Linum usitatissimum Stembark, flower and seed of the plant contain proteins, resin, wax, HCN, glucoside, linamarin and are used as demulcent, expectorant, emollient, diuretic, aphrodisiac, astringent, cordial, cordiac tonic, poultice in gout and rheumatism swellings, irritation of urinary system, gonorrhea, burns. Parabia et al. (2000) 359 Medicinal uses of Litsea sebifera, L.chinensis Stembark and leaf of Litsea sebifera contain laurotetanine and are used as demulcent, astrigent, antidiarrhoeal, antidysenteric, aphrodisiac. Parabia et al. (2000) 360 Medicinal properties of Madhuca indica: M.latifolia, Syn.Bassia latifolia Plant, leaf, flower and bark of the plant contain alkaloid, gucoside, sapogenin, abscisic acid are used as cooling agent, aphrodisiac, anthelmintic, galactogogue, expectorant, carminative, cough, fomentation in orchitis, piles. Parabia et al. (2000) 242 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 361 Medical uses of Mangifera indica, M.montana, M.domestica Furit, leaf, flower, stembark, gum of the plants contain vitamins A,B and C, tannin, gallic acid, fat, sugar, gum and are used as laxative, diuretic, diaphretic, astringent, refrigerant, nourishing, stomachic, antiscorbutic, astringent, antihelminthic, stops bleeding, prolapse of uterus. Parabia et al. (2000) 362 Medicinal uses of Manilkara kouki, Syn.Mimusops kauki Bark, seed and root contain tannin of Manilkara kouki are used as tonic, febrifuge, anthelmintic, astringent, opthalmic, leprosy, delirium, child diarrhoea. Parabia et al. (2000) 363 Medicinal uses of Melaleuca leucadendron Bark and leaf of the plant contain essential oil, betulin, friedelin, sitosterol, uvaol and are used as stimulant, analgesic, antispasmodic, psoriasis, eczema, rheumatism, mosquito repellent, choleretic diarrhoea. Parabia et al. (2000) 364 Medicinal uses of Kirganeila reticulata, Syn.