 Based on our audit, we report that: (i) We have obtained all the information and explanation, subject to the observation in the report, which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purpose of our audit. (ii) The Balance Sheet, Income & Expenditure Account and Receipts and Payments Account dealt with by this report have been drawn up in Uniform Format of Accounts as prescribed by the Government of India, Ministry of Finance. (iii) In our opinion, proper Books of Accounts and other relevant records, except as stated in the report, have been maintained by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research in so far as it appears from our examination of such books. (iv) We further report that: A. Balance Sheet A.1 Corpus/Capital Fund &Liabilities A.1.1 Current Liabilities & Provisions – Rs. 1056.2 crore The above includes closing balance of internal resource generation amounting to 90 Rs. 252.81 crore whereas the same should have been shown under Capital Fund. This has resulted in overstatement of Current Liabilities & Provisions and understatement of Capital Fund by Rs. 252.81 crore. Despite being pointed by Audit in 2019-20, no compliance of the same could be ensured in 2020-21. A.1.2 Earmarked/Endowment funds – Rs. 22.69 crore (1) The above does not include earmarked fund of Rs 99.86 lakh received from the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Government of India under Tribal Sub-Plan Scheme pertaining to National Research Centre on Yak (NRCY) Dirang, which focus on channelizing financial assistance through identified schemes to address the persistent socio-economic backwardness of Schedule Tribes in the country. However, it was not disclosed under earmarked/Endowment funds and clubbed with general grant receipt during the year. As a result, Earmarked fund (schedule 3) was understated and general grants (Schedule 9) was overstated by Rs. 99.86 lakh. (2) An examination of Schedule 3 of Balance Sheet - Investments from Earmarked (Rs. 13.83 crore)/ Endowment funds (Rs. 8.87 crore) reveals that none of the 123 units of ICAR have made Investments despite surplus funds remaining available throughout the year in both Endowment and Earmarked funds. This is in violation of the Significant Accounting Policy no 9 on Investment of Earmarked Funds. Interest Income accrued on such Investments which require funds, to the extent not immediately required for expenditure, to be invested in approved securities for fixed terms in Banks. Further, Rule 229 of GFR 2017 applicable all autonomous organizations states that all autonomous organizations ‘should be encouraged to maximize generation of internal resources and eventually attain self-sufficiency’. Non-investments of surplus funds lying in the Earmarked/Endowment Funds is in violation of the Significant Accounting Policy no 9. This comment was highlighted in previous year SAR and no corrective action has been taken. A.2 Assets A.2.1 Fixed Assets (Schedule 5) – Rs. 3900.