 The extraction yield increased with increase in wattage and pre-treatment time. Microwave pre-treatment did not affect oil quality parameters such as per cent free fatty acid, acid value, saponification value, ester value, per cent glycerin and antioxidant capacity. Microwave pre-treatment on pomegranate seeds showed disruption of aleurone cell, loosening of cell walls containing lipid body and release of lipid bodies. The optimum conditions for microwave pre-treatment were 720 watt, pre-treatment time of 60 s and extraction time of 4 hr. Dried guava (pink fleshed) slices with 15% moisture were packed in plastic punnets and can be stored at room temperature between 6 and 12 months. About 7-8 kg ripe guava fruits and 2 kg sugar is required to prepare 1 kg of dehydrated slices. Papaya fruit bar has been prepared by reducing water content in pulp and using the same for bar making with very good appearance and taste. It is safe and meets dehydrated fruit requirements standards of FSSAI. Ten kg of fruit pulp gives 2.5 kg of fruit bar. This technology has potential to encourage small-scale processing units in rural areas. The technology consists of pre-treatment of freshly harvested, trimmed coriander leaves with 50 ppm kinetin and packaging using 25ì, semi-permeable polypropylene film for coriander cv. Arka Isha. The product has 21 days shelf-life at 8°C. The technology consists of treating freshly cut carrot slices/cubes/ sticks with edible coating (pectin), air drying and packing. The product has 21 days shelf- life at 8°C storage. The technology has potential to prevent browning of cucumber rings with a shelf-life of 6 days at 80C and consists of pre-treatments of freshly-cut cucumber with ascorbic acid and packaging using semi-permeable cling film. The garlic cloves are pre-treated in hot water and packed in BOPP films or equivalent and high humidity and modified atmosphere is maintained. The product has a minimum 3 days shelf-life at ambient temperature (approximately 28ºC), and upto 15-18 days at low temperature storage (8ºC). It reduces problems of sprouting, browning and softening of garlic cloves. A technology for extension of shelf-life of small (300 g ± 10%) and large (900g±10%) broccoli upto 49 days by packing in 30µ Flexfresh™ biopolymer in modified atmosphere storage (3oC with 90-95% relative humidity) was standardized. Potato starch-based films were prepared with varying concentrations of antimicrobial agents. Thus, potato starch cannot only be used for film making, but can also be utilized as replacement of polypropylene due to its higher strength. The assessment of physiological and pathological observation showed mean total of 2.75 and 6.13% losses during harvesting and at curing, sorting, grading and packaging stages, respectively. Mean losses during storage in heaps following farmers’ practice without CIPC treatment up to 90 days (12-31°C, 58-78% RH) were higher (21.05%) due to prevailing high temperatures and low humidity.