 Whole genome sequence based evolutionary analyses of HoBi-like pestiviruses: Results revealed that HoBiPeV had a recent origin and most likely originated in India and provide first evidence of negative selection in HoBiPeV evolution. The HoBi-like pestivirus (HoBiPeV), classified under Pestivirus H species of genus Pestivirus is one of the causative agent of bovine viral diarrhoea- mucosal disease (BVD-MD) in cattle. But the origin and evolution of HoBiPeV is not very clear due to lack of full genomic sequences from diverse clades. Full genome sequences of HoBiPeV strains of three novel clades (c, d and e) circulating in India were determined and full- genome based genetic and evolutionary analyses were performed. The length of HoBiPeVs was determined to be 12372, 12251, and 12259 nt, respectively, for strains of HoBiPeV-c (IndABI15385/2012), HoBiPeV-d (IndBHA5309/2012), and HoBiPeV-e (HoBiPeVInd/ TN-1214/19). Bayesian phylogenetic analyses revealed the existence and independent evolution of four main HoBiPeV clades (a, c, d, and e) globally, with genetic divergence ranging from 13.0% to 18.2%.The Bayesian molecular clock estimates revealed that HoBiPeV most likely originated in India before its emergence in other parts of the world with a dated tMRCA of 1938 (1762– 2000), evidencing a more recent origin of HoBiPeV. The evolution rate of HoBiPeV was estimated to be 2.133 × 10-3 subs/site/year at full-genome level, but varied widely among individual genes. Selection pressure analyses identified most of the positively selected sites in E2. Additionally, 21.8% of the ORF codon sites were found under strong episodic diversifying selection, providing first evidence of negative selection in HoBiPeV evolution. ❑ Lumpy skin disease virus in wild Indian gazelles (Gazella bennettii) In Rajasthan, two free-ranging female Indian gazelles (Gazella bennettii) with skin lesions resembling LSD were rescued and quarantined. A capripoxvirus (CaPV)-screening real-time PCR showed positive results for skin samples. A lumpy skin disease virus (LSDV) wild-type strain specific real-time PCR showed positive results for skin samples confirming natural LSDV infection. Further, genetic and phylogenetic analysis of LSDV GPCR, RPO30 and EEV sequences revealed that the LSDV from Indian gazelle clustered with the LSDV wild-type strains of SG1-lineage (sub- cluster 1.2.1), circulating commonly in Africa, Middle East, Europe and Russia. LSDVs in Indian gazelles and local domestic cattle were genetically similar, reinforcing that susceptible wildlife can become infected with LSDV circulating in cattle in the region. of 12 H5N1 highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) viruses isolated from chickens, ducks, quails and wild birds during October 2022 to April 2023 in different epicentres was determined. In the hemagglutinin gene phylogeny, H5N1 viruses were distributed in two genetic clades, viz. 2.3.2.1a and 2.3.4.4b. Within clade 2.3.4.4.