 Stepwise multiple linear regression (SMLR), partial least squares regression (PLSR), decision trees, artificial neural networks (ANNs), support vector regression (SVR), genetic algorithms, and Gaussian process regression (GPR) are some of the standard machine learning techniques used for crop variable estimation. The hyperspectral imagery having a large number of contiguous bands may lead to data redundancy and results in suboptimal performance in the ML models. To reduce redundancy and computational time, a suitable dimensionality reduction strategy is to be applied to hyperspectral data (Sahoo et al. 2023). Reflectance wa $x (x,y) hyperspectral images Vv time (Source: Ang and Jasmine 2021) Figure 29: 3D cube representation for Big hyperspectral data TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 39 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 40 (Source: ICAR-NePPA) Figure 30: Hyperspectral data of the experimental fields in ICAR-IARI research farm captured using UAV 3.4. Distributed Ledger Technology/ Blockchain: Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) is a decentralized and distributed database architecture that allows multiple participants to share and synchronize a digital ledger across a network of computers. The term is often used interchangeably with blockchain technology. DLT operates on a network of computers (nodes) that are geographically distributed. Each node has a copy of the ledger, and there is no central authority controlling the entire system. Once data is recorded in the ledger, it is typically challenging to alter or delete. Immutability ensures the integrity of the historical records, providing transparency and trust. Opportunities for DTL/ Blockchain Technology in Agriculture Sector: A DTL/Blockchain technology has several applications in agriculture that aim to enhance transparency, efficiency, and trust within the supply chain. Here are some ways DLT is used in agriculture: Supply Chain Traceability: DLT allows for the creation of an immutable and transparent record of the journey of agricultural products from farm to table. Each stage of production, including planting, Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report fe Reflectanc o o w& = T 500 1000 1500 2000 Reflectance a a a cere | Wavelength (nm) (Source: ICAR-NePPA) Figure 30: Hyperspectral data of the experimental fields in ICAR-IARI research farm captured using UAV 3.4. Distributed Ledger Technology/ Blockchain: Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) is a decentralized and distributed database architecture that allows multiple participants to share and synchronize a digital ledger across a network of computers. The term is often used interchangeably with blockchain technology. DLT operates on a network of computers (nodes) that are geographically distributed.