in Impact Evaluation of KVKs Third Party Impact Evaluation of KVK Scheme by Indian Society of Agribusiness Professionals (2021) Third Party Evaluation by NITI Aayog Institute - National Institute of Labour Economics Research and Development (2015 & 2018) • On an average, each KVK covers 43 villages and 4,300 farmers. • About 80% of villages covered by KVK are over 10 km away from the KVK. • Of-campus activities are more than On-campus. • 96% of farmers’ requests were attended by KVKs. • 42% of technologies adopted resulted in higher productivity. • Enhanced incomes are spent on better education, health, housing etc. • On an average, each KVK trained about 100 persons annually on agriprenurship. • About 25% of the persons trained started self-employment venture. • KVKs reported an edge over other organization providing technology services. • Impact of On-farm Trials and Frontline demonstrations is excellent. • Impact of the IFS models is seen manifolds as compared to other extension activities. • As per the feedback received from the farmers, demonstration of precision agriculture in farmers’ fields should also be taken up in good numbers by KVKs. • It is required to give demonstrations on improved tools and farm implements including drudgery reduction tools by KVKs. • KVKs should be promoted and fully equipped for the promotion of entrepreneurs for Agri-clinics and supply systems. needed for extensive explorations, characterization and evaluation of the collected germplasm. The genetic variability may be employed for higher yield, yield stability, salinity tolerance, multi- disease and pest resistance, higher protein as well as other nutrients. e Use of advance breeding methods in association with available genetic diversity can help in accelerating domestication in mothbean and expediting its productivity. e Value-added products and effective marketing strategies can be instrumental in the promotion of mothbean. e Farmers’ participatory varietal development can improve the varietal selection process given that farmers’ selection intensity was like that of the breeders. e Scientific advances coupled with policy signals are required for implementing the innovation and development of high yielding and climate-resilient varieties as well as in mainstreaming of mothbean for diversification of food systems. SUMMARY The CFLD approach of frontline extension is an effective tool for increasing the production and productivity of crops as well as motivating the farmers for adoption of improved technologies and package of practices. They have been effective in changing the knowledge, attitude and skills of farmers. Higher yield in demonstration plots over farmers practice created greater awareness and motivation to other farmers to adopt the improved package of practices of mothbean. These demonstrations also built relationship and confidence between farmers and scientists.