 Keywords: wound infection, camphor, coconut oil, neem oil Shri Kanhei Pradhan Naranagarh, Khurda (Orissa) 2574 Use of vermilion (sindoor), lime (chuna) and aak milk to break blain (phoda) Sometimes the body parts of animals get infected with blains or sores, which generally do not blast and create too much pain. Animals do not take fodder. Farmers call it phoda. About 5 g vermilion , 5 g lime and 10 g aak milk are mixed thoroughly. The mixture is applied over the blain (phoda). After breaking the blain it is washed by a decoction of neem leaves and fried tender leaves of neem are tied over the blain with the help of cotton cloth. The washing and tying the fried leaves is continued for a week to get complete recovery. Keywords: vermilion, lime, aak milk, blain Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 2569 Use of oil of gehuan snake to cure handsaine When dry blain (locally called handsaine) is developed in deeper part of some muscle of animals, farmers use oil of poisonous snake (gehuan) for its cure. The snakes are colected, Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar  killed and boiled in mustard oil to take out their extract. This oil is kept in a bottle and dropped on the handsaine. It is smeared thrice a day, and the practice is continued till the complete recovery of the animal. It is an age-old practice in Sonapur village of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: gehuan snake, handsaine, mustard oil Pradesh) 276 128 2525 Use of ash of burnt cotton cloth and kerosene oil to kill worms in blain of animals Due to carelessness, the wounds or blains of animals get infected with worms which causes severe trouble to the animals. For it, farmers burn cotton cloth and 5- 10 g ash is mixed with 8-10 ml kerosene oil. The mixture is administered by neem stick in the blain. The practice is done once a day and is continued for a week. It is an age-old practice. It is being used in Sonapur village of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: cotton, ash, kerosene oil, worms in blain Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 2518 Use of edible oil and powdered coal to treat ulcer on the neck of bullock Edible oil is boiled and applied over the neck. Powdered coal is pasted on the ulcer to minimize the pain and help in recovery. The farmers of Elandaikundam village in Tamil Nadu are following this practice since 8 years. Keywords: edible oil, oral, ulcer Shri T. Ramesh Elandaikundam, Thirumalapadi via Ariyalur, Perambalur (Tamil Nadu) 621 851 1966 Use of bhangariya to treat blain of animal The farmers of Sonapur village in Azamgarh district of Uttar Pradesh are using bhangariya leaf paste, fried in mustard oil to cure blain of animals. About 200-250 g bhangariya leaves are collected, washed and crushed properly. The crushed paste is fried in 50-60 ml mustard oil.