 Farmers hailing from the problem villages joined and led the campaign against residue burning, became champions of the cause and were recognized by the government. 165 Resource conservation technologies which can be easily adopted by farmers is the need of the hour to boost crop productivity and income of farmers. Soybean cultivated on raised beds showed increased yield in on-farm trials. Additionally, this land configuration has multiple benefits i.e., reduces tillage operation, seed rate and crop lodging; increases nutrient availability, enables management of weed and pests effectively over conventional flat-bed planting. Also, the raised bed planting is less susceptible to climate variability (excess rainfall) due to improved drainage in furrows. Raised bed planting of soybean is considered more appropriate in Vertisols (heavy soils) under rainfed condition for in-situ moisture conservation and yield improvement. Krishi Vigyan Kendras in Madhya Pradesh conducted on farm trials and cluster front line demonstrations on raised bed cultivation of soybean using bed planters for in-situ moisture conservation to realize higher productivity in rainfed areas and for resilience to climate risks in association with State department of agriculture. KVKs successfully demonstrated realization of average yield of 19.24 q ha-1 i.e., 21% higher than conventional flat-bed planting method. 7.3. Climate Resilient Villages (CRVs) Over 80% of the operational land holdings are cultivated by small and marginal farmers owning <1 ha and 1-2 ha, respectively. Agriculture is a climate sensitive sector and is greatly influenced by climate change effect on distribution and quality of natural resources adversely affecting the livelihoods of millions of farmers. Building the adaptive capacity and coping ability of farmers is a priority in view of the increasing frequency of occurrence of extreme events such as drought, flood, cyclone, heat wave, cold wave and hailstorm. ICAR initiative on National Innovations for Climate Resilient agriculture (NICRA) project was re-oriented with the introduction of a cluster approach in 2018-19 enhancing the number of villages from 121 to 443 villages and scaling up from village to district level for development of district climate change adaption plans. All 121 NICRA KVKs demonstrated climate resilient practices and technologies tailored to context and location specific farming situations under four modules including natural resource management, crop, livestock, and fisheries production systems. Evidences suggest that through location-specific natural resource management, improved resilience to drought was achieved through in situ soil moisture conservation practices and planting methods; higher benefit: cost ratio (>2.0) with ex situ rainwater harvesting and its efficient use and increased cropping intensity.