 The facilities in the vicinity of the village included a private health facility and a civil veterinary dispensary. The data collected from all households was entered into an excel spreadshet. Prior to the introduction into the SPSS version 26 software for analysis, a comprehensive data cleaning process was undertaken to identify and rectify any inconsistencies, missing values and outliers. For the descriptive analysis, we calculated frequencies, percentages, means, and standard deviations to summarize the demographic characteristics and key variables of interest among the study participants. This provided a clear overview of the distribution and central tendencies of our data. The categorical data was presented as frequency distribution (number & percentages). The continuous data were presented as mean and standard deviation. Keeping in view the scope of our study, univariate analysis was performed. 3. Results 3.1. Socio-demographic characteristics A total of 77 households were involved in the study. The village has a human population of 431 comprised of 51.5 % males and 48.5 % fe­ males. The baseline assessment indicated that the average household has 5 members. Detailed sociodemographic characteristics are given in Table 1. The majority of the people belonged to the backward class (90.9 %) followed by the scheduled caste (9.1 %). Out of the total population, the majority were in the age group 19–44 years (43.4). The mean age of the respondents was 34.19 years. Out of the total village population, 5.7 % were involved in crop farming and animal husbandry as their primary occupation which also meant that the remaining households had non-agricultural jobs as their primary occupation, These individuals were completely dependent on agriculture for their livelihood and income. They owned some land and animals, and was their primary (or overall) source of income. The sec­ tion on agricultural profile of the villagers aimed at identifying if the households were investing their time in cultivating food items, habitu­ ally or because they got some provision to do so, either as a kitchen garden at home or some piece of land owned by their ancestors, which got passed onto them. Of the total households, 71.4 % responded that they were engaged in some or the other agricultural activity (irre­ spective of their primary source of income). 27.5 % were housewives, 11.4 % were skilled labour including drivers, carpenters, gardeners, tailors, shopkeepers, mechanic, etc., 31.3 % were students, 15.6 % were private/government/retired employees and 8.5 % were unemployed. 3.1.1. Agricultural profile Out of the 77 households surveyed, 71.4 % reported engagement in agricultural activities. Wheat was grown by all of these, followed by cultivation of maize (41.8 %), potato (12.7 %), onion (20.0 %), Table 1 Sociodemographic characteristics of the population. Socio-demographic variables Frequency n (%) Sex (n ¼ 431) Male 222 (51.5) Female 209 (48.