 In this first attempt, the system is developed for real-time DO monitoring and management of the waterbody. With this process, the continuous DO and temperature with 10 minutes’ interval data are recorded and stored in the cloud server. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 112 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 113 DO concentration in water is a critical water quality parameter because of its direct effect on the feed consumption and metabolism of aquatic animals as well as indirect influence on the water quality. Therefore, long-term DO and temperature data will be used for simulating the spatio-temporal change scenario of waterbody health status for aquatic animals. Furthermore, machine learning (ML) techniques will be applied on long-term DO and temperature data for simulating the interactions of DO and other associated parameters with stocking density, fish biomass, thereby planning the fish stocking density based on the waterbody carrying capacity. Table 1: Comparison of DO reading of different system -Qualitative and quantitative comparison of before and after implementation of the use case The comparison can be illustrated by graphs, tables, figures, etc., The product is tested in different scenarios for validating its functioning. The real time before and after implementation comparison can be done after implementing in the commercial fish farm. 5. Lessons learned  The initial cost for DO sensor is high.  Continuous internet is required to upload the data in the cloud system, otherwise remote monitoring may be hampered.  Continuous power is required for functioning of the system. 6. Links for supporting material (website, articles, etc.) 1. Importance of Dissolved Oxygen Level in Aquaculture and Fish Biodiversity (mygov.in) 2. J. -H. Chen, W. -T. Sung and G. -Y. Lin, "Automated Monitoring System for the Fish Farm Aquaculture Environment," 2015 IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, Hong Kong, China, 2015, pp. 1161-1166, doi: 10.1109/SMC.2015.208. 3. Chen, C.-H.;Wu, Y.-C.; Zhang, J.-X.; Chen, Y.-H. IoT-Based Fish FarmWater Quality Monitoring System. Sensors 2022, 22, 6700. https://doi.org/10.3390/s22176700 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report DO concentration in water is a critical water quality parameter because of its direct effect on the feed consumption and metabolism of aquatic animals as well as indirect influence on the water quality. Therefore, long-term DO and temperature data will be used for simulating the spatio-temporal change scenario of waterbody health status for aquatic animals.