 Cultural characterization on four different ISP media showed immense diversity among the members of the genera Streptomyces and Nocardiopsis. The strains of Streptomyces spp. and Nocardiopsis spp. showed varying levels of antifungal activity with all strains found antagonistic against both Fusarium udum and Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. ci- ceris. All the strains obtained in this study have been accessioned at the National Agriculturally Important Microbial Culture Collection (NAIMCC) to increase the database of characterized strains belonging to these two genera in the collection.  2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of King Saud University. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/). 1. Introduction Actinomycetes are an important group of soil bacteria that are found to be more prevalent in dry soils than wet soils. Soil actino- mycetes are known for their plant growth promotional activity as they exhibit various useful traits (Ma et al., 2020). They can also produce a variety of secondary metabolites, many of which are antibacterial or antifungal (Olanrewaju and Babalola, 2019). Most antibiotics used in human medicine are metabolites of actino- mycetes, with many of them originating from Streptomyces spp. (Ma et al., 2020). The ability to synthesize a variety of chemical substances such as antibiotics, enzymes, and anti-tumor medici- nes, made Streptomyces spp. most common genus used in the pharma industry (Chaudhary et al., 2013). In soil, they grow as sub- strate mycelium and produce a range of enzymes including chiti- nase, xylanase and cellulase that breakdown complex organic polymers into constituent simple sugars (Seipke et al., 2012) thereby playing a direct role in biogeochemical cycles. They are signiﬁcant candidates for natural fertilizers because of their ability to cycle nutrients. They are effective colonizers of rhizosphere and rhizoplane tissues with the potential to enhance plant growth, and development and boost yield (Dias et al., 2017). Streptomyces spp. promote plant growth through the production of phytohormones like auxins, cytokinins, and gibberellins, additionally they produce 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase whose activity is important in the suppression of plant stress https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jksus.2023.102619 1018-3647/ 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of King Saud University. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/). ⇑Corresponding authors. E-mail addresses: kumar.m@icar.gov.in (M. Kumar), saxena461@yahoo.com (A.K. Saxena). 1 These authors contributed equally and share ﬁrst authorship. Peer review under responsibility of King Saud University.