 But generally, a mixture of Coco-peat, vermiculite, and perlite can be used for growing microgreens in a 5:2:1 ratio respectively. The release of macro-and micronutrients present in this medium is very slow; hence, a farmer can reuse the same media several times for the growth of their young greens. Microgreens seeds generally do not require extra nutrition for germination but require only ideal conditions (environmental and proper water moisture conditions for imbibition) for germination up to the microgreen stage which makes the production of microgreens easy and cost-effective. Treatment of seeds by various chemicals is also not suitable for farming of microgreens and the use of hybrid seeds may not be economical for you. Sowing time Seeds can be sown around the year as per the consumer’s requirement. During the reuse of previous sowing media, roots and other remaining parts of preceding crops should be completely removed from the trays/container. Dry the media properly by exposing it to sunlight and then fill the trays/container. Any living place like rooms or any type of mini-greenhouse can be used to keep your greens to maintain optimum temperature, humidity, and light intensity. Microgreens grown in an environment with high light conditions, low humidity and good air circulation will result in a better harvest. Harvesting and packaging Microgreens can be harvested at 7−14 days after germination (tropical climate) and somewhat longer (14-28 days) in cold weather (temperate climate) that depends on the crop, and other environmental conditions. Microgreens along with the stem and attached seed leaves can be cut with the help of scissors. Microgreens have a short time span of usability and require better strategies for storage and transport. Business microgreens are frequently put away in plastic clamshell containers. Biodegradable clamshell containers are also available in the markets. Benefits of growing microgreens as a business The benefits of integrating leafy greens and microgreens into their diet are gradually being understood by people worldwide, ensuring that demand continues to grow. And we are also seeing more and more problems and crop failure of vegetables grown outdoors, so there is an indoor future for agriculture. Low start-up costs - Farmers may start their business with very low investment by simply supplying one restaurant with their greens or producing enough microgreens to sell at a farmer's market once a week and rising production according to customer demand. Quick turnaround time - Microgreens from seed to harvest take around 7-14 days. A farmer doesn't have to wait for a whole season or more to harvest. Year-round growing - Microgreens can be grown round the year and a farmer can use microgreens to earn extra money and diversify their business for more profit. Higher nutrition - Microgreens are ‘functional foods’. They are a complete pack of different vitamins and nutrients.