 Goat possesses tremendous potential for adapting to different agro-climatic conditions and on wide range of feedings. 2.1. Goat Population Dynamics There is significant growth in population of goat in India during the last three decades. As per 20th livestock census 2019, goat population in India has increased from 95 to 148.88 million between 1982 and 2019. The highest increase of 16% in goat population was recorded during 1982 to 1987. About 13% increase has been recorded between 2007 and 2013. Similar trends have been noticed between 2012 and 2019, wherein about 10% increment in the goat population was observed. Growth in goat population is demand-driven. In urban areas, demand 41 for livestock products rises faster than the other food groups when income starts to increase (Gandhi and Zhou 2010). 2.2. Goat Management Systems in India yy Extensive System: This system includes free range, transhumance, pasture and range grazing management. The system is based on low resource input and low level of productivity. More than 80% population of goat is reared under extensive system. yy Semi-Intensive System: This system is combination of limited free-range grazing and stall- feeding. The optimum level of nutrition, which is better than that under extensive system are observed. The rearing system helps in substantial improvement in body weight gains, milk yield, wool yield and prolificacy. Overall, improvement in quantity and quality of meat production can be achieved by supplementing with concentrate mixtures along with cultivated leguminous fodders and tree leaves. yy Intensive system: This system includes grazing on developed pastures and/or complete stall-feeding on cultivated fresh or conserved fodders, crop residues and concentrates. Goats are quite capable of making efficient use of feed and fodder in stall feeding system as well for conversion into meat, milk and fibre. 2.3. Goat Genetic Resources in India India possesses 34 registered breeds of goats however, population of these breeds comprises <35% of the total goat population of the country. There is intermixing to a larger extent among the breeds in a region where two or more breeds exist. These goat breeds have evolved and developed by the goat farmers for different agro-climatic regions to meet out local demands of the particular region of the country. The goat breeds on the basis of agro- climatic regions are described as follows: 1. Northern Temperate Region: Chegu, Changthangi, and Gaddi. These breeds are medium in size, fiber- producing and also used for transportation of goods. The breeds Chegu and Changthangi produce finest quality of under coat called ‘Cashmere’ or ‘Pashmina’ beside meat. 2. North-Western Region: The popular breeds of this region are: Beetal, Jamunapari, Barbari, Sirohi, Marwari, Jakhrana, Surti, Gohilwadi, Kutchi, Zalawadi, Mehsana. Goats of this region are medium to large in size, dual purpose with special attribute of high milk yield.