 The earliest recognizable symptoms of the disease are the production of blackish brown specks or spots on the peduncle and flowers (Fig. 3). b a Symptoms of dieback and twig drying (Fig. 2a. dieback, b. twig drying) Fig. 3. Symptoms of blossom blight July–August 2021 39 Small black spots appear in the open flower panicle, which gradually enlarge and often coalesce to cause the death of flowers, either directly or indirectly by the drying up of the flower stalks. The infected flowers fall off, leaving the more persistent spikes on the peduncles. The severity of the disease may vary depending on the prevailing weather conditions. A positive correlation between the severity of the blossom blight and rainfall, rainy days and the vapour pressure deficit has been observed. In dry weather, disease do not cause significant losses. Management Management efforts should be based on weather prediction and the possibility of economic damage. Disease can be managed by a spray of carbendazim (12%) + mancozeb (63%) formulation @ 0.2%, azoxystrobin 23SC @ 0.1% or propineb 70WP @ 0.2%. Powdery mildew Powdery mildew, caused by the fungus, Oidium mangiferae is a widespread, devastating disease. Its severity mainly depends on weather conditions and susceptible crop stage and available inoculum load. The infection is caused by wind-borne conidia, and the life cycle is completed in 5-9 days. Spore release was positively correlated with temperature and negatively correlated with humidity, vapour pressure deficit and leaf wetness. Minimum temperatures of 10-13°C and maximum temperatures of 27-31°C, combined with high humidity, were found to be the most conducive to disease development. Whereas, temperatures below 27°C and above 35°C do not cause economically significant losses. The characteristic symptom is the white superficial, powdery appearance of fungal growth on inflorescences, stalks of the inflorescences (Fig. 4a), leaves (Fig. 4b), and young fruits. The mildew attack on mango flowers results in the dropping of the infected flowers. Infected young fruits either drop or if they grow, their epidermis in the infected area cracks and a corky tissue is formed. Management Since, the incidence of disease is weather dependent, spraying should be done only after the assessment of the possibility of economically significant damage. Sulphur 80WDG 0.2% or hexaconazole 5SC @ 0.1% can be used to treat it. Anthracnose Anthracnose disease, caused by the fungus, Colletotrichum gloeosporioides is a destructive and widespread disease. The fungus infects the entire mango tree, causing symptoms such as leaf spots, twig blight, wither tip, blossom blight, and fruit rot. Anthracnose losses have been estimated to be between 2 and 39%. Numerous oval or irregular brown or deep brownish spots of variable size, round or angular in shape, scattered over the leaf surface, are the characteristic symptoms (Fig. 5a). The spot may begin randomly on any part or on the whole leaf.