 The approach entails establishing a oneM2M- based platform, using LoRa technology for collecting and transmitting data from sensors to the field node (gateway) and Cellular/ internet connectivity, for transmitting data from field node to oneM2M compliant C-DOT's CCSP (C-DOT Common Service Platform) server. The data collected by the servers through the gateways is analysed using Al/ ML algorithms are used to get actionable inputs for the farmers and Govt agencies. The data is collected and processed for following purposes: 1. Real-time monitoring of critical parameters such as soil moisture, temperature, and soil nutrient levels. Remote control of farming equipment through a mobile application. 3. Provision of expert guidance and valuable insights to enhance crop yield per hectare. Dissemination of the latest technical information, weather updates, and education onmodern equipment like drones, along with online equipment rental services. 5. Access to online market information, high-quality seeds, pesticides, and fertilizers. Facilitation of data sharing with relevant government authorities to monitor farming activities and make accurate yield predictions for holistic planning. Keeping in view the affordability of farmers with low income, the intent was to design, develop and produce a low cost solution after studying the day to day requirements of the farmers and discussions with the farmers during various ‘Kisan Mela’. This solution will have a significant positive impact on the agriculture sector by enhancing productivity and sustainability of the farmers. Moreover, the deployment of oneM2M based solution aligns with the Government's overarching goal of creating a standardised and secured loT/ M2M ecosystem. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 126 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 127 Figure 1: Process flow diagram The primary objective of the product is to prove a cost-effective IoT infrastructure/solution utilizing oneM2M compliant C-DOT's CCSP (C-DOT Common Service Platform) for offering services to farmers to provide them with real time monitoring of soil humidity and temperature to improve the health of crops and prevent the spread of various diseases such as viruses, plant fungus, and at the same time provide a high level monitoring of the farm yield to the government authorities to enable them plan better. This initiative aims to optimize resource allocation, thereby benefiting both farmers and the agriculture sector as a whole. According to estimates from the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), the implementation of this solution is expected to result in a 30% reduction in water wastage and a 50% decrease in the requirement for manual labour. The benefits of technological advancements can be passed on to the weak section of society by using such simple low cost product.