 Š Š Underutilization of open water bodies: Several wetland areas in the state are lying underutilized or not utilized at all for fish production. Š Š Exploitation of fishermen by intermediaries: The fishermen are forced to part with their catch at compromised process to the intermediaries due to lack of cold chain facilities for long term storage of the catch. The lack of active pro-producer involvement of the fishermen co-operatives are also blamed for the situation. This level of exploitation can be clearly made out from the stark differences in the price of fish at the farm gate level and market level. Provision for cold storage facilities at least at the fishermen co-operative level could facilitate acquisition of catch from the producers and dissemination to the consumer at fair prices. Š Š Social structure and gender bias: The population of Tripura comprises of Bengali speaking population and Tribal population. Among the Bengali speaking population, 554 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 capture fisheries is undertaken by members of specific castes while there is no restrictions among the Tribal populations. Fishing rights in large water bodies are virtually exclusively vested with members of these communities. Fishing rights in large water bodies are disbursed by the licencing system in the reservoirs, with the members of the agency being exclusively from a fishermen caste. It is not clear if women members independently have licences for fishing. Women of these communities take active part in fishing operations such as seining and trap fishing, while not in sale of fish. Tribal women on the other hand are involved in fishing operations as well as marketing of fish. There seems to be a definite gender bias in the ownership of technologies and access to resources in the capture fishing sector at least among some communities. It is also not understood if the specific fishermen communities suffer unequal social treatment, as is often the case in several other states of India Fisheries (Captive): The major constraints need to be addressed includes- Š Š Genetic degradation in fishes: Due to repeated use of same parental stock for inducing breeding causes genetic degradation of the offspring and ultimately loss in productivity. Š Š Lack of diversification of culture fisheries: Indian major carps and exotic carps are the dominant fish of captive culture in Tripura. However, continuous cultivation of these species is now showing the effects as under or over exploitation of aquatic resource, disease epidemics and short harvest season. Š Š Lack of research facilities: Though there are sufficient numbers of qualified technical staff to undertake the field work, but constraint of funds has been the problem to set up a research unit in the state. Š Š Lack of soil and water quality mapping: Soil and water quality mapping is essential for effective use of aqua resources and to secure a good yield.