 Over and above that, the significant differences in the institutions and policies, the two countries have chosen to adopt for attaining broadly similar economic goals. This is particularly true with respect to agriculture. Although, in both countries the major emphasis is on rapid industrialization because of the predominantly agrarian nature of the economies, the agricultural sector provides the basic foundation for industrial expansion with supplies of food, raw materials, and labour, with markets for industrial goods and with foreign exchange earned through exports of primary products. In both countries the pace of industrial advance is severely constrained by the vagaries of agricultural production and dependence on agriculture as a direct source of income is also very substantial, even after all these years of industrialization. One should note here that the prices at which output is valued being more favourable to industry in China than in India, the relative share of modern industry in national income is larger in China. Both have traditionally been agrarian economies and well over half of their billion-plus people continue to depend on land for their livelihood. Given their large populations and histories of famine, India and China also share similar concerns on issues such as food security. However, while India’s agricultural sector is growing by about 2.5 per cent; China’s has been steadily growing at between 4 and 5 per cent over the last 15 years. By 2005, China had in fact emerged as the world’s third largest food donor. China with lesser cultivable land produces double the food grains, at 415 million tons per year compared with India’s 208 million tons per year. To conclude, in agriculture our yields per acre are well below the international norms. India could be a giant exporter of food, only if we could put our ‘house in order’ to near world class standards. China with lesser cultivable land produces double the food grains than us. God has been very kind to India with a lot of sunshine, rain, rivers, lakes, coastline and good hard working citizens. The Governance in India have not done enough to show the results that it is capable of achieving rate as the No.1 country in the world for potential vs performance. Indians score high marks on performance outside India. This is because the Governance is better outside. In countries where the Governance and Administration is poor, the performance of its citizens is also low. Keywords: Indian Agriculture, Potential vs Performance, Administration, Industrialization INTRODUCTION Farming is an integral part of the Indian economy. With technological advancements and improvements in various structures, there has been a gone debate between traditional approaches to farming © 2022 IJNRD | Volume 7, Issue 8 August 2022 | ISSN: 2456-4184 | IJNRD.ORG IJNRD2208088 International Journal of Novel Research and Development (www.ijnrd.