 Yield The data on yield of musk melon and water melon were collected from different pickings of the crop.The fruits were picked at three stages: at early and middle stage for vegetable purposes and (Table 4) Watermelon was picked for 30 days at early stage for vegetable purpose with as average of 5 kg/day. Pickings were re to 20 days at both middle and maturity stages, giving yield of 10.5 and 25. respectively. Data on yield obtained during May to September, 2002 for muskmelon and watermelon along with income are shown in Ta Economic analysis of birani badi Cost of cultivation Cost of cultivation of watermelon and musk  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 1595 Title of the ITK : Use of bantulsi (Ocimum gratessimum) leaf paste for treatment of khurha (FMD) in cattle and buffalo Description of the ITK : Bantulsi has medicinal properties against FMD. Paste of bantulsi leaves is prepared after grinding it along with water and the paste is applied on the infected foot of cattle and buffalo at least twice daily for 3-4 days. The practice is prevalent in Barmasa village of Jarmundi Block in Dumka district (Jharkhand) and has potentials for spread in the areas where bantulsi is available. Success has been reported in more than 75% of the cases. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Varun Lal, C/o Lok Jagriti Kendra, 52 Bigha, Madhupur, Deoghar (Jharkhand) Location of use of the ITK : Barmasa, Jarmundi, Dumka (Jharkhand) Geographical indicators : Bantulsi (Ocimum gratessimum) is a bushy plant, 4-6 feet in height. The flowers are bluish and the plant is available on mountains of Jharkhand. Experimenter : Dr B.K.Roy, Associate Professor, Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006. METHODOLOGY Location The study was carried out in village Barmasa, block Jarmundi, dist. Dumka (Jharkhand) PRA and field study Field study was conducted following PRA methodology with 20 respondents. The parameters or factors included were; extent of cure, duration of treatment (days), cost effectiveness, safety, increase in milk yield, effect on reproduction and draught capacity. The ITK was compared on these factors with the recommended allopathic treatment. Experiment Field experiment was conducted in 10 replications with two treatments, viz. T1 ITK (the wound in the hooves was washed and the paste of bantulsi leaves was applied over the wound once daily for 6-7 days); and T2, recommended practice, i.e. potassium permanganate lotion was applied over the wound, analgesic tablet was given once or twice and ointment (himax) was applied once daily over the affected hooves for 6-7 days. Fig. 1. Use of bantulsi leaf paste for treatment of khurha in cattle and buffalo   VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY results and discussion Table 2.