 We need techniques, technologies and investments that will increase water-management efficiency and access to irrigation, or find ways to increase their incomes in the face of less secure and more variable water availability. Information and technology upscaling, typologies and barriers World Bank has defined upscaling of technologies as the replication and adaptation of techniques, ideas, approaches, and concepts to achieve an increased scale of impact. It aims to direct the socio-economic impact Indian Farming 79 January 2025 of the technology to smallholder farmers efficiently and increase in scale of coverage of that technology. For upscaling of technologies, the foremost priority should be given to strengthening the innovation, for which knowledge should be generated, disseminated and adopted at full scale. Upscaling of technologies also refers to reframing the strategies with bridging the gap between research and farming to bring the desirable change in the behaviour of clientele. Upscaling of technology can happen in horizontal, vertical and diagonal direction. Replicating proven technologies or innovation, in newgeographic areas or target clienteles is called horizontal upscaling. While vertical upscaling refers to catalyzing institutional and policy change; diagonal upscaling refers to adding project components, altering the project configuration or changing strategy in response to changing institutional arrangements. Typologies of scaling Typology Description Strategies Scaling out Impacting greater numbers. Based ideas or initiatives never spread to greater numbers or achieve widespread impact. Deliberate replication: Replicating orspreading programs geographically andto greater numbers while protecting thefidelity and integrity of the innovation. Spreading principles: Disseminateprinciples, but with adaptation to newcontexts via cogeneration of knowledge,leveraging social media and learningplatforms. Scaling up Impacting law and policy. Based on the recognition that the roots of social problems transcend particular places, and innovative approaches must be codified in law, policy and institutions. Policy or legal change efforts: development, partnering, advocacy to advance legal change and redirect institutional resources. Source: Moore et al. (2015) Key barriers to scaling information and technologies include a lack of tailored technical options and beneficiary awareness, limited resources for capacity building and extension, insufficient funding at all levels, and low private sector investment in smallholders political inaction on issues affecting vulnerable communities, low awareness of climate-smart approaches (e.g., ecosystem services and insurance), insecure land and water access, high adoption risks for certain technologies, and frequent turnover of key advocates also hinder scaling efforts.