 Singh, Associate Professor, Clinical Medicine, College of Veterinary Sciences, Pantnagar, dist. U.S. Nagar (Uttaranchal) 263 145. Maharashtra Animal Science & Fisheries Sciences University (MASFSU) Dr. N. K. Dakshinkar, Associate Professor, Dr. G. B. Shrikhande, Assistant Professor and Dr. D. B. Sarode, Professor and Head, Department of Clinical Medicine, College of Veterinary Sciences, Nagpur 440 006 (Maharashtra) Results and discussion Therapeutic efficacy of bael fruit: Results of experiments conducted at IVRI indicated that the diarrhoeic calves received the significant supportive therapeutic effect of bael bael- ivuii powder (ITK) together with standard powder in diarrhoea. These results are in antibiotic treatment showed better improvement in conformity with those of the previous year. The results pertaining to the therapeutic efficacy of ITK at GBPUAT revealed that the clinical profile of all diarrhoeic calves revealed a significant decline in scores for faecal consistency, dehydration and depression by days 3 and 7 of post-medication values. A majority of the affected calves in different groups showed normalcy with respect to the clinical profile after 7 days of medication. The therapeutic efficacy of Bael powder juice alone was 60% in diarrhoeic calves. However, its efficacy in combination with standard therapy was 90%. The standard therapy alone was responsible for 80% recovery in diarrhoea in calves. At Nagpur Veterinary College experimented that, the application of Bael powder, reduced the dehydration score and faecal consistency score, it had little effect on the parasitic load. In nonparasitic diarrhoea, the bael powder could reduce the faecal consistency score. However, clinical recovery was more pronounced in the standard therapy group. It was observed that Bael powder had an astringent property and could be used as an adjunct therapy in diarrhoea for a speedy recovery. Powdered bael fruit Polypacked powder 29 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture Conclusion The study was conducted to validate the use of bael fruit powder in diarrhoea. The initial validation was done at IVRI, where the bael powder given @ 24 g/100 kg body weight orally was found to hasten the recovery in calves suffering from E. coli diarrhoea. The bael powder was of particular use as a supportive therapy. The cross-sectoral validation study done at Veterinary College, GBPUAT and Veterinary College, MASFSU, Nagpur confirmed these findings. The active ingredient study revealed the presence of alkaloids, tannins, flavonoids, saponins and triterpenes, which may be responsible for ameliorative potential of bael in diarrhoea. 7.8 Control of diarrhoea in cattle and buffalo by a paste made from leaves of Shisham (Dalbergia sissoo) Description of ITK Dulbergia sissoo leaves might be having anti- diarrhoea medicinal value. This ITK is highly compatible with the existing resources.