 Pooling the strengths of ICAR-CRIDA ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 96 in crop science, crop models, agricultural water management and strong regional presence of allied institutes with IWMI’s core competencies in remote sensing assessment, drought monitoring and agro-economics will lend multi-disciplinary expertise to drought monitoring and management including preparedness and contingency planning. Building climate resilience of Indian smallholders to strengthen nutrition and food security: The main goal of the project is to improve agricultural productivity, adaptive capacity and livelihoods of the farmers in the north-eastern states of India. The project partners include, NIBIO (Norway), NRRI- Cuttack, OUAT, AAU, MSSRF, IWMI (will collaborate with ICAR- IIWM). IWMI and IIWM will contribute to the socioeconomic vulnerability assessment, identification of most relevant CSA technologies, integrated water resource management and improving WUE, flood and drought advisory services. The NARES partners and SAUs will implement the CSA and provide capacity building and knowledge dissemination from farmer to farmer. IWMI-TATA water policy research: IWMI will continue implementation of SPaRC in Gujarat and Bihar. The projects will help in groundwater–abundant, energy-scarce eastern India. The study will help in catalyzing equitable solar irrigation service with access to high quality and affordable irrigation, especially for small and marginal farmers. In addition, the program will also pay attention on the rethinking of PMKSY, revitalizing canal irrigation in India, small farmer prosperous farmer (SFPF) initiative, cities as smart irrigation systems, tank aquifer agro-ecosystems and rural drinking water enterprises. The NARES, ICAR-IISWC is proposed to collaborate in the program on managing groundwater as Common Property Resource (CPR). Enhancing economic water productivity in irrigation canal commands: The proposed project under ICAR-IWMI collaboration will investigate the interactions of water availability, water use in a canal command area in the State of Maharashtra, and identify appropriate interventions (physical and institutional) for increasing the economic water productivity ( EWP). The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), especially the IIWM, Bhubaneswar and AICRP IWM, Rahuri Centre, are the primary partners for the research component and pilot testing. The project will establish contacts with other national research institutions (NIH, Roorkee), and with the state and central government departments, including the State Groundwater Boards, Agricultural Department, Irrigation Department, WALMI and State Remote Sensing Institutes etc. Portfolio of Climate Smart Land and Water Interventions for Climate Smart Villages: The NRM interventions for the CSV in six states (MP, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Bihar, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh) under CCAFS will be undertaken.