 Potato IC0625993 19105 Better water use efficiency than popular cultivars. High yield. GENETIC RESOURCES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 23 webtom.cabgrid.res.in/ricegis). In case of brinjal, no adventitious presence of transgenes was found in samples collected (175) from north-eastern states bordering Bangladesh. GM testing services were provided for 68 samples of 27 consignments of different crops to public and private sector. Visual and real-time construct specific loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) assays of insecticide resistance/herbicide tolerant GM events were developed with acceptable specificity and limit of detection (0.01%). A total of 6,100 plant DNA samples are conserved in National Plant Genomic Resource Repository. Bioinformatics analysis pipeline for plant genome and transciptome was developed. Microbial genetic resources: National Agriculturally Important Microbial Culture Collection (NAIMCC) is a designated national repository for conservation of agriculturally important microorganisms (AIMs). It maintains microbial cultures of agricultural importance in India and is an affiliate member of World Data Centre for Microorganisms (WDCM). Currently, NAIMCC holds more than 6,800 AIMs including bacteria (both actinomycetes and archaea) and 3,809 fungi and cyanobacteria. In the year 2019, 380 microbial strains have been accessioned and preserved in NAIMCC. A novel species of moderately haloalkalophilic actinobacteria isolated from salt crusts of Panamik hot spring, Leh, Ladakh and new nomenclature proposed is Nesterenkonia icaraensis sp. nov. Some rare cyanobacteria namely, Chamaesiphon sp. SB2, Leptolyngbya antartica SK2, Hapalosiphon sp. BG2, Trichormus azollae SB1, Hapalosiphon sp. SB10 Chroococcidiopsis cubana HC1, Pleurocapsa sp. HC3, Chroococcus sp. SB4 were isolated from extreme environments (Atri hot springs, Brahamagiri and Bhiterkanika, Odisha and Leh). NAIMCC has supplied more than 60 microbial cultures to different private and government institutions for research purposes. A total of 30 microbial cultures have been accessioned under safe deposition from different government and private institutions. HORTICULTURE Collection of germplasm from exotic sources: In all, 13 germplasm accessions of pomegranate (12 from France, 1 from USA); 33 exotic accessions of banana; nine lemon varieties from USA and five lemon varieties from South Africa, were collected. Introduction of rootstocks: Bitters, Carpenter, Furr, Swingle, Citrus volkamariana, Sour orange (Citrus aurantium), Flying dragon (Poncirus trifoliate strain), Rich 16-6 (Poncirus trifoliate strain) and Rubidoux (Poncirus trifoliate strain) were collected from USA.