 In case of difficulty whole/ complete replication (without any split within any replication) should be shifted to the adjacent field. 6. Management of the crop (i) Cultural practices shall be clearly defined at the time of constitution of the trial, and be specified as decided by the workshop. (ii) Appropriate range for date of sowing, seed rate, depth of sowing, row and plant spacings, fertilizer, water, weed, insect-pests and disease management etc. shall be strictly adhered to at all the test sites as per the specified instructions supplied along with the trials. 7. Test locations (i) Same set of IVT for each specified cultural situation shall be conducted across all zones (wherever applicable) of the country in different regions, where the crop is predominantly grown. (ii) The test centres shall be identified in the workshop. Test locations could be ICAR Institutes/ SAUs/Main or Regional Research Centres/Zonal Research Centres/State Govt Centres, where a multi-disciplinary team of scientists is positioned and adequate operational facilities exist to carry out coordinated trials as per the instructions. (iii) Every effort should be made to have maximum number of test locations, and there should be at least three trial sites in each zone/ecology, where the crop is of importance. Additional test locations should be decided on the basis of the existence of the well developed centres and predominance of the crop. (iv) The trial entries shall be well spread over the cropping region, and clustering of trial sites in any region shall be avoided. 4 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS 8. Monitoring of the trials All the trials shall be monitored by a team of scientists to be deputed by the Project Director/ Coordinator. The monitoring team shall have the following minimum composition. (i) PD/PC/ZC/PI/Senior most member of the team Team Leader (ii) Plant Breeder Member (iii) Agronomist Member (iv) Pathologist /Entomologist Member (v) Scientist of any other specified discipline Member The team shall visit the trial sites at around full flowering to maturity and record observations on the quality of the trials conducted and on the management as per the specified norms, and comment on the reliability of data likely to be generated. The monitoring team shall record observations on plot uniformity within replications and test plots, crop stand, disease and insect-pest incidence, bird damage etc., and any other feature having a bearing on quality of the data generated and is attributable to crop management aspects. The monitoring team shall also indicate an overall estimate of the yield of the trial on the basis of its observations, and give a clear-cut recommendation whether the trial data should be accepted or rejected. Recommendations of the monitoring team shall be the major deciding factor in acceptance or rejection of the trials. 9.