 KVKs in tribal dominated areas in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh established hatcheries for promoting scientific rearing of Kadaknath in the region which led to its further spread across 20 states. Promotion of better rearing practices in back yards as free-range poultry in existing orchards and commercial production for higher economic returns catapulted the indigenous breed to a well-recognized brand. Gandhian Philosophy of Self-reliance: Lab-to-Land Initiatives of ICAR 164 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 7.2. Farming as a way of life and livelihood Organic way of farming is in tune with the vision of the Mahatma for self-sufficiency in the practice of agriculture utilizing the on-farm resources for promotion of soil health to improve farm output without much use of external inputs. KVKs enabled formation of 596 local groups in more than 400 districts and registered 13222 organic farmers covering 8135 ha area under the Traditional agriculture promotion scheme (PKVY). Integrated Farming Systems (IFS) approach integrates, and links diversified farm enterprises like crops, horticulture, livestock, and fisheries for enhancing the livelihood security especially of small and marginal farmers. IFS symbolizes the traditional way of life of farmers combining various crop and livestock production systems for risk and cost reduction along with year round supply of farm inputs, outputs for household consumption and income from marketable surplus. IFS in homestead farms is quite common in the tribal North Eastern Region. KVKs established location-specific integrated farming system demonstration units of different sizes at instructional farms in more than 380 districts. KVKs also extended support for establishment of 13735 IFS units by farmers and farm women across 29 states. In recent years, burning of paddy residue in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh for sowing of succeeding wheat crop in the rabi season is in practice. This is not only responsible for environmental pollution but results in multiple ways of loss in terms of organic carbon, microbes and nutrients. The widespread, recurrent and unhealthy practice of stubble burning in the rice-wheat belt can only be combated with a massive campaign involving and educating all the stakeholders of society and creating an enabling environment to demonstrate alternatives for overcoming the problem of residue burning. To address this, a programme on Crop Residue Management (CRM) was initiated in these states through KVKs in collaboration with state departments of agriculture. KVKs took lead in building awareness against residue burning through the involvement of 60 KVKs in Punjab, Haryana and U.P. KVKs prepared robust action plans to create awareness among the farming community and also undertook capacity building of stakeholders and demonstration of suitable machines for in-situ management of paddy straw. A massive campaign against residue burning was launched by ICAR.