 Seaweed cultivation Indian Farming November 2020 43 Survey of the seaweed resources on the coasts of Tamil Nadu, Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Kerala and Lakshadweep has been completed and the estimates of total standing crop of these areas and, in particular, the harvestable quantities of agarophytes and alginophytes had been made (Fig. 2). Annual seaweed harvest estimation (wild collection) from Indian Coast as well as production through farming in the sea along the east coast of India is being enumerated periodically by this Institute with which potential yield was estimated. Integrated Multi-Trophic Aquaculture (IMTA) The bio-mitigation along with increased biomass production in mariculture activity can be achieved through Integrated Multi-Trophic Aquaculture (IMTA) by integrating different groups of commercially important aquatic species, which are having varied feeding habits (Fig. 3). Seaweeds are excellent bio- remediating agents and capable of improving water quality by uptake of dissolved minerals, nitrates, ammonia and phosphates. In this context, the ICAR-CMFRI has successfully conducted demonstration of Integrated Multi Trophic Aquaculture (IMTA) by integrating seaweed Kappaphycus alvarezii farming with cage farming of Cobia (Rachycentron canadum). A total of 16 bamboo rafts (12 × 12 feet) with 60 kg of seaweed per raft were integrated for a span of 4 cycles along with one cobia stocked cage (6 m diameter and 3.5 m depth with 1,000 cobia fingerlings). Seaweed rafts integrated with cobia stocked cage had a better average yield of 320 kg per raft while in the non- integrated raft, the yield was 144 kg per raft. An addition of 176 kg of seaweed per raft was achieved due to the integration with the cobia cage farming. The total amount of carbon sequestered into the cultivated seaweed (Kappaphycus alvarezii) in the integrated and non-integrated rafts was estimated to be 357 kg and 161 kg, respectively. Hence, there is an addition of 196 kg carbon credit due to integration of 16 seaweed rafts (4 cycles) with one cobia stocked cage (one crop). The presence of inorganic extractive components contributes to the periphyton to the aquaculture area Fig. 2. View of harvested farmed Kappaphycus alvarezii Fig. 3. Integrated Multi-Trophic Aquaculture (IMTA) Indian Farming November 2020 44 as well as offer habitat for planktons to settle. Seaweeds are known to release 30-39% of their gross primary production as dissolved organic carbon (DOC) to the ambient water. Seaweed mariculture for combating climate change impacts It is estimated quantitatively that seaweeds are capable of sequestering dissolved CO2 at the rate 80.5 mg/g wet weight/day while their rate of emission through respiration is only 10 mg/g wet weight/day. Large scale seaweed mariculture has been recognized as one of the climate resilient aquaculture techniques to mitigate ocean acidification.