 Chemical method Chemical weed management involves the application of herbicides, which are chemical substances developed to control or eradicate undesirable weeds. Use of herbicide is efficient, easily available and involves less cost. The herbicides commonly recommended for application in maize crop are listed in Table 3. Precautions need to be taken care of during herbicide application: It is important to use herbicides judiciously, following recommended dosage, application timing, and safety precautions to minimize potential negative impacts on the environment, non-target organisms, and human health. • Avoid dehydration; consumption of adequate amount of drinking water should be done before start of herbicidal spray. • Label instructions on herbicides should be followed for application doses and water volume. • Do not use expiry products. • Flat fan nozzle type sprayer should be selected for herbicide spray. • Herbicide spray should be done in calm weather (no wind) during noon time. Avoid spraying under cloudy and rainy season. • Need to wear protective gears such as hat, gloves eye and foot wear to avoid herbicide injury. • Apply pre-emergence herbicide Fig. 3. Weed control by tembotrione spray in maize at 30 DAS. when there is sufficient moisture in the soil. • Do not disturb the soil after herbicide application. • If pulse crop is to be raised as intercrop, do not use Atrazine. Spray Pendimethalin @ 0.75 kg/ha as pre-emergence within 1-3 days after sowing in maize. SUMMARY The presence of weeds in maize crops leads to a substantial reduction in yield due to competition for essential growth resources. Minimizing competition from weeds is paramount for achieving optimal crop yield. Integrated weed management practices need to be followed in an appropriate manner during critical period of crop-weed competition. Adoption of integrated weed management practices may reduce herbicide usage while focusing on sustainable cultivation methods for a more promising future. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: seemasepat12@gmail.com Indian Farming 28 October 2023 Rice sheath blight: Reappraising the host-pathogen interplay and breeding strategies in the Omics Era Sanchika Snehi1, Nitish Ranjan Prakash2*, Rameswar Prasad Sah3 and Pawan Kumar Singh1 1Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 005 2ICAR-Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Regional Research Station, West Bengal 743 329 3ICAR-National Rice Research Institute, Cuttack, Odisha 753 006 Rice sheath blight is caused by Rhizoctonia solani Kühn. The characteristic symptoms include root, crown, hypocotyl, pod and belly-rot, sheath- and leaf-blight, banded leaf, brown patch and canker. Chemical management of this disease is largely unsustainable and non-viable thus underpinning the importance of resistant varieties. Although many QTLs governing tolerance to rice sheath blight have been mapped but robust, easy-to-use QTL without linkage drag is lacking.