 The recent episode of shifting from conventional to organic farming in Sri Lanka and the consequent reduction in crop yields, the food crisis, highlight the negative consequence of unplanned and blanket adoption of organic agriculture. In a large country similar to India, a random approach may lead to severe food shortages due to the size of the Indian population. Hence, India needs to adopt a gradual calibrated approach to shift from conventional to organic agriculture, which requires a holistic examination of the possible impacts and consequences of organic agriculture. These concerns are summarized in Figure 1. Sustainability 2022, 14, 15057 3 of 22 Figure 1. Theoretical rationale of organic agriculture and unanswered questions in red. The strategies toward organic agriculture are primarily country-speciﬁc depending on the environmental, economic and political considerations. This indicates that every country needs to evolve country-speciﬁc strategies to balance food security and safety and farmers’ incomes and ecology [18–20]. Given that most of India’s rainfed and hilly farmers follow organic agriculture by default with a low level of chemical fertilizers, it is the right time to answer questions such as whether rainfed and hilly areas are more suitable for expanding organic agriculture instead of blanket adoption across India. The Union government of India has promoted organic agriculture under the Param- paragat Krishi Vikas Yojana (PKVY) scheme since 2015. The demand for organic produce has increased by 20% per annum in India [21]. Under this scheme, 29,859 certiﬁed organic clusters (comprising 2–3 villages) have formed across India, covering about 0.4% of cropped area by 2021. This scheme was launched to support organic farming via a cluster approach (with an average of 20 hectares per cluster) with the Participatory Guarantee Scheme (PGS) certiﬁcation system [22]. The PGS is a locally focused quality assurance system. It certiﬁes producers based on stakeholders’ active participation and is built on a foundation of trust, social networks and knowledge exchange [6]. Despite government incentives, organic agriculture has not picked up as expected in terms of the expanding area, production, certi- ﬁcation and exports of organic products. The transformation from conventional agriculture to organic agriculture is complex and depends on local conditions [19]. As the scheme has already completed 3 years, it is the right time to examine the bottlenecks, learning and impacts to guide future policy development.