 The expected concentration ranges for these microorganisms are 1–50 and 100–1500, respectively [79]. This observed disparity may be attributed to the damp conditions created under the solar panels, which foster a wet, humid, and anaerobic environment compared to other locations. Such conditions could lead to an increased presence of algae and fungi within the soil [80]. Additionally, we found that the concentrations of nematodes and protozoa in agricultural farms were primarily influenced by the availability of nitrogen, a result of fertilizer application [81]. This nutrient-rich environment pro­ motes microbial activities related to mineralization, including nitrification, denitrification, and ammonification. These findings demonstrate the potential impact of solar panel installations on soil microbial communities and further detailed study is necessary to understand the overall influence of solar structure on soil. Many regions in India are experiencing water shortages; fluctuations in precipitation and rainfall negatively affect crop production and daily water consumption by society [37]. Similarly, solar farms require water to clean panels effectively; without such cleaning, power plant efficiency declines. In some power plants, water is extracted from groundwater wells (Fig. S5b). In some power plants self-cleaning robots are used. Such robots perform daily operations of cleaning without any external source of water or electricity (Fig. S5c). Another, field visit to Bhadla solar power park, we got to know that, in most solar power plants, water is being transported from the Indira Gandhi Canal. It is located at a far distance from the power plant. While some of the power plants within the parks were using automated cleaning robots, which require no water consumption, and run solely on their own solar power source. This shows the importance of having self-cleaning robots. The application of cleaning robots is an effective choice yet is quite expensive [82]. Hence, some kind of incentive in the use of robots could bring positive change in water utilization. It is challenging to grant permission for solar power plant installation because such plants can have negative impacts on agriculture and water resources. There is a trade-off among the food, energy, and water sectors with respect to land use. Proper guidelines from a central management body are essential for sustainable planning. Currently, the government determines state-wise solar power po­ tential estimates based on land availability and sunshine. On a broader scale, land type and natural resources should also be considered. Previous studies discuss the use of the Solar radiation zone map prepared by TERI based on the IMD database as an important material for planning [66]. Other studies considered the terrain and infrastructure development aspect for solar power installation [67]. However, all these datasets give a coarse idea of the solar resources available on land.