 Therefore, it is important to catch the rain water where it falls through water harvesting structures. Location-specific technologies for rainwater harvesting with farm ponds, percolation tanks, check dams etc. have been developed. Groundwater recharge technologies including open well and tube well recharge models have been developed and upscaled. Harvested water was used for increasing the cropping intensity by bringing more area under cultivation, resulting in enhanced yields and returns. The in situ and ex situ water harvesting structures enabled efficient use of harvested water resulted in higher yields and net returns under deficit rainfall conditions. Apart from water, soil health management is also prime importance for sustainable agriculture. Soil health management aims to promote crop and location specific sustainable practices that includes residue management, organic farming practices, nutrient management, balanced application of fertilizers, minimizing the soil erosion and degradation. Soil aggregates and water stability improved under conservation treatments. Balanced fertilization and integrated nutrient management systems are the keys to sustainable crop production in terms of building up of soil carbon, structural stability and crop yield. Climate resilient villages Large scale demonstration of location specific resilient technologies was undertaken in 151 clusters, covering 446 villages to address major climatic vulnerabilities. Under NICRA project water harvesting structures have been made and efficient use of harvested water resulted in higher yields and net returns under deficit rainfall conditions in major crops. The extent of yield improvement due to critical irrigation is up to 85% in some of the low rainfall regions. Harvested water was used for increasing the cropping intensity by bringing more area under winter (rabi) crops resulting in enhanced yields and returns in crops such as wheat, mustard, chickpea and vegetable crops. Demonstration of zero tillage cultivation is being taken up contributing residue burning free villages. Livestock is an integral part of farming in India. In the NICRA villages, farmers are introduced to several innovative resilient technologies to breed improvement, shelter and feed management that protect livestock from climate-induced thermal stress and climate induced animal diseases. Enhancing preparedness of fishing communities has been undertaken in few fishing villages by establishing basic community infrastructure, strengthening seawalls and bio shields. To improve income of fisher communities, a multi-vendor e-commerce system has been developed using the information and communication techniques. Innovative institutional interventions, viz. village climate risk management committee, custom hiring centres, seed and fodder production systems set up in NICRA villages enabled farmers to take up timely farm operations, access to quality seed and fodder, and generate significant revenues.