 Symptoms are reduced feed intake, acidity in forestomach, mild diarrhea, undigested feed particle and reduced milk fat. Supplementation of cation mineral based ration is an approach by which the acid-base balance of the dairy animals can be altered by maintaining the major cation and anion inclusion in the diet of dairy animals. The cation based mineral supplement contains feed additives (Na+ and K+), can be fed to dairy animals which increase the basicity in ruminant to alleviate rumen acidosis. Because of easy availability of this through endogenous production through saliva and these are added in their diet of which sodium bicarbonate is the compound most commonly used in the feed industry. Intervention: (Cation based mineral supplement): Dietary cation and anion difference (DCAD) based ration feeding is another way to balance the acid-base chemistry of the dairy animals which can be altered by manipulating major anion and cation inclusion in diet. The difference between certain anions (Cl-, S-) and cations (Na+, K+) may be more important for individual effects and their animal productivity. Dietary cation and anion difference (DCAD) is a way to balance the electrical charges of the anion and cations in the diet was coined by Sanchez and Beede. Dose and time: Cation-based mineral supplement was provided to dairy farmers who had lactating buffalo or cow. Dairy farmers were provided with the information about 150 g of C-bMS to be fed mixed in concentrate. It can be divided into two equal half and fed in morning and evening. C-bMS should be fed after 15 days of calving to up to the peak yield of cow/buffalo. Generally peak yield level comes after 50-60 days of calving. Effect of cation based mineral supplement • Improved rumen fermentation. • Increase in production efficiency expressed as milk yield/kg, dry matter intake or 6% Fat Corrected Milk per kg dry matter intake. • Inclusion of antioxidant/ultra- traces minerals are effective in enhancing their immune status as reflected in immunity parameters and reduction in somatic cell counts (mastitis). • Presence of chromium and vanadium are particularly effective in modulating glucose metabolism which contributes in more milk yield. • Production efficiency increased by 4.4% and 11-12%, respectively by manipulating dietary cation- anion difference to the extent +300 and +400 mEqDCAD/kg dry matter, showing not much variation with two levels of supplementation. Extension strategies: Mass campaign were organized in all seven villages to create awareness about ruminal acidosis. Dairy farmers were explained about ruminal acidosis and losses incurred by it through awareness camps, home-to-home and farm-to-farm visit and animal health camps followed by feeding trials.