398 5-diphenyl phenol and ammonia were also somewhat closer to phenol for making an effective kill (50%) of cabbage aphids.However, paracresol and uric acid required a much higher concentration to achieve the same toxicity levels. Catechol and urea were of intermediary category. Further, the LD50 doses of these pesticides except paracresol and uric acid are quite within safe range and are not likely to cause any environmental degradation. Therefore, these safer pesticides may be advocated for adoption under field conditions. These findings, show a strong indication of effectiveness of cow urine compared with other treatments. The performance of cow urine has been due to phenol, paracresol, catechol, orcinol, halogenated phenol and 2, 5-phenyl phenol, etc. which are known to be antibacterial, antifungal and antibiotic which might be insecticidal in view of these findings. CONCLUSION The results of the study conducted in Himachal Pradesh during 2002 showed that cow urine Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS treatments is effective in controlling aphid in cabbage. Application of cowdung ash and fresh urine treatments took a little longer time for pest eradication than the aged urine. The treatments with cow urine (30 and 100% concentration) were more effective than those of 10 and 20% respectively. All the urine types (cow, buffalo and sheep), whether fresh or aged, showed nearly similar effects for similar concentration levels without any significant difference. Treatments with 150 g ash per plant was most effective compared with other quantities used and neither cattle urine nor cowdung ash showed any marked effect on the growth of cabbage plant. However, the results of the study conducted at IIHR, Banglore revealed that the ITK was not effective in reducing the aphid population in cabbage, the effect being inconsistent and sporadic perhaps due to receipt of continuous rains during growth period of crop. Literature showed that cow urine contains other ingredients like allantion, allantoic acid, hippuric acid, creatine, amino acids like glycine, arginine, methionin, etc. creatinine, carbonic acid, carbonates, bicarbonates, inorganic salts, agglutinins, precipitins, DHEA, natural cortisone, urine peptides, vitamins (A, B, C, D and E), malic acid, citric acid, tetris, succeneic acid, hiperic acid, some hormones and enzymes, etc. which might have certain additive or synergistic effect and these ingredients might have influenced the results obtained at Shimla. The nutritive status of old and fresh cow urine indicated that old urine had more nitrogen, total protein and albumin compared with fresh urine. The overall order of toxicity at 100% concentration was: phenol > ammonia > 2, 5 di- phenyl phenol> urea > catechol > paracresol> uric acid and at 25% concentration it was: phenol > 2, 5 di-phenyl phenol > ammonia > urea > cathenol > para cresol > uric acid.