 Normally, 1×1 m row to row and plant to plant distance is maintained by thinning off extra plants. Young and healthy plants are collected from nearby pond and transplanted at in interval of 1×1 m spacing in the month of March-April. After 2-3 months of transplanting, bright purple flowers start appearing in the pond surface. The flower changes to fruit and burst after 35-40 days of flowering and the seeds float on water surface for 2-3 days and then settle down at the bottom of the pond. Harvesting Harvesting refers to collection of scattered Makhana seeds from the bottom surface of the pond. The harvesting of Makhana is very tedious and painful activity, which involves a lot of drudgery. A diver has to go deep into the bottom surface of pond and hold his breath for longer time as one can. Normally, the breath lasts for 1.5-2 min and in that short time the driver has to go down and work which includes awkward postures. During this operation, mud enters into the diver’s ear, eye, nose and mouth. The divers also get skin diseases due to this problem. Therefore, some kind of diving suit should be supplemented to the divers involved in Makhana seeds so that they can be inside the water for longer duration and to reduce the drudgery involved in the harvesting of seeds from ponds. The collection of seeds in pond system is done in the month of August-October by divers of “Mallah” community in the morning around 6.00 – 11.00 am. First of all, the leaves and plants are cut with knife from the top surface of the pond. After 4-5 days all plant parts starts to decay and get decomposed in the pond, and then only the divers get inside the pond. The collection of seeds in traditional system is done in the month of May–June 2023 31 August-October. In pond, one bamboo pole locally called “Kaara” is fixed in the pond and the divers go to the bottom surface, lie down and drag the mud near the pole with both palms. Like this the diver covers a radius of his height around the periphery of the pole. A heap of mud is formed near the base of bamboo pole which is later sieved with locally made bamboo screen called “Ganjaa”. The collected seeds in “Ganjaa” are then carried through the water surface where the seeds get cleaned. During this operation, many a times divers get injured due to the presence of sharp thorns of Makhana present in the pond. About 50-60% of the cost goes in paying the labour charges as a particular community is involved in collecting the seed and no other harvesting machine is available till Makhana Plant Harvesting of Makhana Raw makhana seeds Makhana flower and fruit Ganjaa: Traditional harvesting tool Makhana seeds on water Traditional way of harvesting in pond now. The charges of collecting seed increases with the number of times of harvesting. Normally, in a pond 2-3 times harvesting is done. Initially its starts with ` 15-20/kg for the first harvest, ` 30-40/kg for second harvest and ` 50-60/kg for third harvest and so on.