 However, this ecosystem is always at threat due to abiotic and anthropogenic activities, which majorly damage soil and plant health. Major threats are due to degrading lands and excessive use of chemical fertilizers, pesticides and weedicides, which hugely affect the crop production and quality of vegetable crops. As a supplement to these chemical entities, biofertilizers and biopesticides along with the bioorganic botanical and microbial bioproducts have emerged to benefit small farms producing quality and organic vegetables with very low load of synthetic chemical molecules. Among the majorly used bioproducts, nitrogen fixer Rhizobium, Azotobacter and Azospirullum, phosphate solubilizer and potash mobilizer Bacillus species and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, plant growth promoting bacteria Pseudomonas, biofungicide Trichoderma, bioinsecticide Beauveria, Metarrhizium and bionematicide Paecilomyces are to name a few which are now being promoted among the vegetable growers. These microbial inoculants to be used at different stages of plant growth can help plants tolerate abiotic and biotic stresses, thereby reducing loses in the field and maintain nutritional quality of the produce by imparting mechanism-level changes in metabolic pathways. Application of the microbial inoculants can reduce the dependency of farmers on synthetic fertilizers and pesticides which persist longer in the vegetable produce and make the fruits chemical contaminant-free for consumption by the consumers. This way, the microbial applications in crop production system can add value to the crop and help farmers to gain more monetary benefits from value added products. SUMMARY Overall, the primary goal of the secondary agriculture to provide value added agricultural products through processing and stress management can be achieved in the vegetable production system by precise processing of the crop produce that go waste in the fields. The application of microbial inoculants and the recycling of soil nutrient in the agricultural farms through composting are added advantageous operations in the vegetable production system, with the help of which chemical contamination free-soil and plants can be nurtured in the fields. The produce from such soils and crops could yield more for the farmers in terms of economics and thus enhance their income. For further interaction, please write to: Swati Sharma (Scientist), Division of Crop Production, ICAR- Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 305. *Corresponding author email: swtsharma92@gmail.com Table 2. Yield of brinjal, pea and cabbage under organic system of cultivation Treatment Brinjal Pea Cabbage yield (t/ha) yield (t/ha) yield (t/ha) FYM @ 25 t/ha 38.64 6.4 27.6 NADEP compost @ 25 t/ha 40.1 7.3 27.78 Vermicompost @ 7.5 t/ha 39.91 7.1 29.28 FYM + Vermicompost (10 t+2.5 t/ ha) 39.63 9.4 28.51 NADEP + Vermicompost (10 t+2.5 t /ha) 37.82 10.6 28.84 FYM + NADEP compost (10 t+10 t/ha) 40.83 9.9 29.