 Crop Improvement, Crop Production, Plant Protection, Crop Physiology, Biochemistry and Post Harvest Technology, Seed Technology, and Social Sciences. The institute headquarter is located in the heart of Shimla city, 4 kilometer from Shimla bus stand near Bemloe (Himachal Pradesh). It is located at an altitude of 2200 metres above mean sea level and has a wet temperate climate. It has seven regional stations located across the country viz. Modipuram (Uttar Pradesh), Jalandhar (Punjab), Gwalior (Madhya Pradesh), Patna (Bihar), Shillong (Meghlaya), Ooty (Tamil Nadu) and Kufri (Himachal Pradesh) to cater the need for location specific potato research and extension activities. The institute has total 521 ha farm lands distributed over the country. The institute has created the state-of-the-art laboratories for conducting basic, strategic and applied research in potato. The All India Coordinated Research Project on potato (AICRP-Potato) is also located in this institute and has been functioning since 1971. It has 25 regional centers located in nearly all agro-climatic zones of the country for multi-location trials. The institute has developed over 60 potato varieties and several technologies related to potato production and protection for potato growers of the country. Institute also takes care of dissemination of these technologies to the ultimate consumers through various trainings, demonstrations, farmers fair, exhibitions etc. Mission To carry out research, education and extension on potato in collaboration with national and international partners for enhancing productivity and profitability, achieving sustainable food and nutritional security and alleviating rural poverty. Panoramic view of CPRI, Shimla Potato crop on terrace November–December 2019 9 • Potato Genomics and Bio-informatics Laboratory; • Cell Biology Laboratory; • Diagnostic Laboratory; • Electron Microscopy Laboratory; • Virus Culture Facility; • Radioisotope Laboratory; • Soil and Plant Analysis Laboratory; • Late Blight Screening Facility; Mandate The ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute is a non- profit scientific institution under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, working exclusively on potato. The institute has played a key role in popularizing potato cultivation and utilization under sub-tropical agro- ecosystem. We believe that potato can play an important role in food and nutritional security of India, while helping the rural poor to rise out of poverty. The institute focuses all its energy to make that belief becomes a reality. • Basic, strategic and applied research to enhance sustainable productivity, quality and utilization of potato. • Repository of genetic resources and scientific information on potato. • Transfer of technology, capacity building and impact assessment of technologies. • Disease-free nucleus and breeder seed potato production. • Coordinate research and validation of technologies through AICRP on potato.