 SAUs need to play a greater and more proactive role in attracting best talent by providing enabling environment and facilities at the colleges for the all-round development, growth and employment of students. States should provide more funds to the SAUs to modernize and strengthen the infrastructural facilities to better equip themselves to meet the newer challenges in the sector. To achieve average annual growth above 4%, allied sectors have to be taken on board as we would require not only food but the balanced diet with adequate nutrition. For increasing production and productivity on sustainable basis, the new technologies developed through concerted R&D efforts are going to hold the key for success. Some bigger initiatives with mega investments would be required to produce the competent human resource, not only for the research and teaching purposes but also to effectively deliver the technologies at the grassroots level to give momentum to get the optimum production. The budget of Agricultural Education, as approved in the EFC Plans, has increased from `224.69 crores (IX Plan) to `1019.85 crores (X Plan), `2585.00 crores (XI Plan), `2900.00 crores (XII Plan) and `2050 crores in the 3-year Annual Plans (2018-2020). However, with time, though the number of AUs and their constituent colleges and departments has increased, yet there is no commensurate increase in the budgetary provisions. Sectoral division of SAUs into different subject areas has also contributed to their rising numbers and falling financial share. Need for greater investment in Agricultural Education to attract and retain talent 6 “When we think we know, we cease to learn.” –Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan 58 Landscape of Higher Agricultural Education in India 59 Consequently, the financial health of SAUs, in general, is precarious. It is imperative to enhance budgetary support both at the centre and the State level to attain and sustain enhanced capacity for technology development and quality of research and education (Kiresur, 2017). It was also suggested that the Govt. of India should encourage young professionals to set up their own enterprise by providing subsidized funding and exchange programmes with the universities abroad to take up self-entrepreneurship. 7.1 Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA) Youth play a vital role in transforming agriculture in India. However, there is a continuous increase in migration of rural youth to urban areas. In order to create interest and confidence among rural youth in agriculture and check the rate of their migration, there is a need to make agriculture more profitable. Realizing the importance of rural youth in agricultural development especially from the point of view of food security of the country, ICAR had initiated a program on “Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA) during 2015-16.