 Efficacy of fungicide against rice bakanae disease was tested and observed that spraying of propiconazole @2 ml/litre of water at 15 days after transplanting (DAT) recorded the lowest incidence of bakanae disease and higher yield. Crop transplanted in first fortnight of February recorded lowest incidence of rice stem-borer (0.76%) and highest yield as compared to late planting. Bio-control of parasitic weed Striga spp. in sugarcane: Soil application of mycorrhizal consortium @20 kg along with 500 kg of compost/ha at the time of sugarcane planting resulted in suppression of parasitic weed Striga spp. emergence by 38%, and increased the sugarcane yield by 13.50% with a Benfit cost (B:C) ratio of 2.51 (AICRP-WM Centre of ICAR- DWR, Jabalpur at UAS, Dharwad). determination of herbicide combination products, viz. pretilachlor + pyrazosulfuron, cyhalofop-p-butyl + penoxsulam and traifmaone + ethoxysulfruon. Herb-Cal: A new multi-language mobile app to calculate herbicide dose: ICAR-Directorate of Weed Research, Jabalpur has developed a user friendly multi- lingual mobile app named ‘Herb Cal’ for application of herbicides. After entering the herbicide information such as crop, area, dose and herbicide formulation to be used, the app automatically calculates the amount of herbicide and quantity of water to be taken for spray. This app is available on Google Play Store. Biological control of alien invasive weed Salvinia molesta in central India: Water fern (Salvinia molesta), an alien invasive aquatic weed earlier reported in Kerala, has recently been observed in Satpura reservoir in Sarni town of Betul district and 3- 4 aquatic ponds in Jabalpur and Katni districts of Madhya Pradesh. The weed has adversely affected irrigation, hydroelectric generation, water availability and navigation besides drastic reduction in production of fish and aquatic crops (chestnut). Non-availability of label-claim herbicides for aquatic weed management, high cost of mechanical removal and regeneration thereafter are some of the major challenges for its management. Therefore, biological control was considered as an eco-friendly and cost-effective method for its management. A host specific insect Cyrtobagous saliviniae, known to be an effective bioagent against S. molesta, was brought to the Directorate of Weed Research, Jabalpur for testing its bio-efficacy and further multiplication. To demonstrate the technology, a 20 ha Salvinia infested pond in village Padua of Katni district was selected for release of bioagent in consultation with the villagers and Sarpanch (head of the village). It was told by the Sarpanch that the pond was severely infested for last three years and all the efforts of manual removal by the villagers were in vain. Initially, 2000 adult weevils of bioagent C. saliviniae were released in the infested pond in the month of December, 2019. The bioagent started multiplying in the pond gradually.