 Apart from WA, these materials can be treated as a source for phenolics as well as flavonoids having diverse array of applications in nutraceutical as well as pharmaceutical sector. Dietary fibres The cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin content in the residual plant biomass of W. somnifera is 38.62, 27.03 and 11.94% respectively. The values indicate that this material comes under medium to high cellulose with high hemicellulose and low lignin content group. The relative distribution of dietary fibres is of utmost importance to find the feasibility of the materials to be converted into suitable value-added products like bioethanol, biochar, compost, growth medium etc. Basically, cellulose remain in crystalline form in cell while hemicellulose in branched form with low molecular weight while both are shielded by a matrix of lignin that creates hindrance for bioethanol production The predominant sugars that are most suitable for fermentation are reducing sugars like glucose, xylose and arabinose that are derived from cellulose and hemicellulose mainly. Therefore, the materials with cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin content of 30-38%, 14-27% and 9-18% respectively are useful as feedstock for bioethanol production. On the other hand, degradation/ breaking of cellulose and hemicellulose are relatively faster than lignin during pyrolysis process. So, higher lignin content is often inferred to have better thermal stability, a desirable property of substrate one can expect during preparation of biochar. The values of dietary fibre content of the residual plant biomass clearly show its suitability for bioethanol production opposite to biochar where it seems not suitable. Similarly, composting should be relied on such plant biomasses having less lignin content as the cellulose and hemicellulose are easy to degrade in biomass and lignin is hardest to degrade/decompose by microbes. Such kind of materials are also useful for preparation of growth medium for mushroom. It implies that the residual plant biomass is suitable for preparation of compost as well as matrix for mushroom cultivation. Besides pharmaceutical and/or nutraceutical applications, this material can be utilized in preparation of different value-added products having wide industrial applications; ultimately facilitating the waste valorisation/recycling process. Different value- added products than can be prepared by utilizing the residual biomass are depicted in Fig. 3. Fig. 2. Withanolide content in different parts (stem, leaf and fruit with seed) of above ground biomass of W. somnifera Apart from withanolides, different types of phenolic compounds and flavonoids are present that provide antioxidant capacity to the plant. Total phenol and total flavonoid content of the above ground part was measured in each respective extracts of different solvent systems as mentioned earlier and methanol-water, 50:50 exhibited highest content as 50.74 mg GAE/g of dry matter and 32.