 These incubators provide an effective platform for fostering the growth of sustainable business endeavour and provide a wide range of services such as research support; business planning; office space; access to information and communication technologies; and advice on management, marketing, technical and financial issues. This initiative addresses the much-needed requirements of business incubation for converting agriculture technologies into an attractive commercial proposition. Accordingly, a network of established 25 ABI centres in various institutes; and further expanded by establishing another 25 new ABIs at different ICAR institutes in October 2019. Thus, the total strength of ABI network in ICAR is 50. Indian Farming January 2020 66 leadership; • To impart training and capacity building to prospective entrepreneurs; generate value added manpower to compete effectively. Salient Features of Agri Business Incubation (ABI) Centers • 2016-19: 25 Agri Business Incubation (ABI) Centers of ICAR had facilitated 662 incubates/ entrepreneurs/start-ups for their agri-business related technical as well as infrastructural needs in the last three years (2016-17 to 2018- 19) and graduated/ trained 385 entrepreneurs/ start-ups for starting their business in agriculture and allied sectors. • 2019-20: 25 ABI centres have been supported/established in various institutes; and issued a sanction for 25 new ABIs, at different ICAR institutes. Thus, the total strength of ABIs in ICAR is 50. These ABIs undertook different activities to facilitate the business environment in the ICAR institutes, which include, Agri-entrepreneurs/ Incubators admitted for incubation (207); Agri-entrepreneurs/ Incubators graduated (91); Entrepreneur Development Programme (EDPs) organized (86); and Agri-business D e v e l o p m e n t / A w a r e n e s s Programmes Organized (290). Outside ICAR Support National Initiative for Developing and Harnessing Innovations (NIDHI) is an umbrella programme conceived and developed by the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Division of National Science and Technology Entrepreneurship Development Board (NSTEDB) of Department of Science & Technology, Government of India, for nurturing ideas and innovations into successful start-ups. Objectives of NIDBI-Technology Business Incubator • To create jobs, wealth and business aligning with national priorities. • To promote new technology/ knowledge/innovation based start- ups. • To provide a platform for speedy commercialization of technologies developed by the host institution or by any academic/technical/R&D institution or by an individual. • To build a vibrant startup ecosystem, by establishing a network between academia, financial institutions, industries and other institutions. • To provide cost effective, value added services to startups like mentoring, legal, financial, technical, intellectual property related services. Under this programme, five ICAR institutes got incubation facility support, viz.