 In the era of environmental and ecological sustainability, agroforestry models are an alternative to traditional systems that offer various ecosystem services, alleviate poverty and ensure sustainable income rendering benefits to the society. Moreover, mainstreaming such multifunctional agroforestry in different regions of the country in a focussed way will help to meet the gaps and upscale multifunctional agroforestry in a coordinated manner. *Corresponding author's e-mail: lathikaconifers@gmail.com TEXTBOOK ON WATERSHED HYDROLOGY TECHNICAL ASPECTS Pages: v + 478; Price: ` 1000.00, US$ 90.00; Postage: `50 ISBN No.: 978-81-7164-203-8 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit ICAR- Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan – I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Tel: 011-25843657; email: bmicar@icar.org.in, businessuniticar@gmail.com website: www.icar.gov.in “Textbook of Watershed Hydrology” This textbook attempt to fill this gap in one of the major subjects namely the watershed hydrology. It is believed that the principles and practices of watershed hydrology will only resolve the national land and water degradation problems. The textbook is divided into 13 Chapters. Beginning with general introduction to hydrology, it covers the chapter-wise global and Indian water balance, precipitation measurement and analysis procedures. Indian Farming 33 August 2023 Sustainable cultivation of rice: Challenges and opportunities Nandita Banerjee* and Sanjeev Kumar ICAR-Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 002 As a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure peace and prosperity by 2030, the United Nations have adopted 17 Sustainable Development goals (SDGs). In accord with these goals, India being an emerging global leader is truly committed to achieve these SDGs. Although India is the fourth largest economy in terms of GDP, its world ranking in SDG index has gone down from 117 to 120 rank in 2022. Rice is the third largest crop which provides one- fifth of the total calories consumed in the world. However, present day cultivation methods of rice contribute to global warming through the release of greenhouse gases (GHGs) like methane and nitrous oxide more than other crops and also place a heavy demand on the available fresh water resources. Hence, a shift to sustainable cultivation practices can act as a key driver for India to achieve SDGs by 2030. Keywords: Oryza sativa, Sustainable cultivation, System of rice intensification S ustainable cultivation of rice (Oryza sativa L.) can be achieved through development of rice varieties which are high yielding, short duration, amenable to advanced agronomic practices like system of rice intensification (SRI) and alternate wetting and drying (AWD) and have less methanogenic bacteria in their rhizosphere.