 The fungal mycelium is a key determinant of the size and shape of the lesions in infected plant parts. The typical symptoms of the disease are the appearance of spherical to ellipsoidal water-soaked lesion having greenish-grey centre and Indian Farming 29 October 2023 brown margin on the leaf sheath near the water line (Fig. 1). The disease is vernacularly known as ´snake skin disease´, ´mosaic foot stalk´, and ´rotten foot stalk´. At the field level, the infection usually affects the plant in a typical circular pattern referred to as Bird’s nest. The pathogen penetration may be stomatal or cuticular via lobate appressoria or infection cushion respectively (later being more frequent). The schematic representation of the disease cycle is presented in Fig. 2. Molecular process involved in Rice- Rhizoctonia solani interplay Rhizoctonia solani germinate along the veins of rice leaf and form infection cushion during disease establishment. These infection cushions are involved in enzymatic degradation leading to necrosis in plants prior to mycelial invasion. Metabolic changes such as a decline in photosynthesis, cellular respiration, formation of secondary metabolites, and phytohormones, and accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) inside the host cell lead to cell death. The Pathogen’s perspective Diverse strategies such as effectors, secondary messengers, and secondary metabolites are employed by the fungi to colonize and establish itself in host to dampen the host defense machinery (Table 1). The cell wall presents the first barrier to fungal invasion; the fungi employ 223 different kinds of carbohydrate-active enzymes (CAZ) which include glycosyl transferases (GTs), glycoside hydrolases (GHs), polysaccharide lyases (PLs), carbohydrate esterases (CEs), non- catalytic carbohydrate-binding modules (CBMs), and cell wall-degrading enzymes (CWDEs). These primarily mediate degradation of cellulose, hemicellulose and chitin, and are thus important in penetration and infection. Polygalacturonase (PG), which are known to hydrolyse pectins and induce cell death is also known to play a role in pathogenesis. Three potential effector families viz. cytochrome C oxidase assembly protein CtaG/ cox11 domain, glycosyltransferase GT family 2 domain and peptidase inhibitor I9 domain of R. solani AG1- 1A were validated that could trigger crop defence responses in the form of cell death. Fig. 1. Rice sheath blight symptoms and the pathogen. Fig. 2. Schematic representation of sheath blight infection in rice caused by Rhizoctonia solani. Table 1.