 Despite similar dissipation kinetics between biotic and heat-treated soils, significant carbon isotope fractionation (εC = − 0.9 ± 0.4 ‰) was observed in the biotic soil experiment, whereas no significant isotope fractionation was detected under heat-treated conditions. The observed carbon isotope fractionation in the biotic soil experiment provided further evidence of profenofos biodegradation. This is likely associated with a low isotope effect involving mainly O–P bond cleavage, though higher isotope effects linked to C–Br bond cleavage may also have partly contributed to the observed isotope fractionation. In contrast, profenofos undergoing O–P bond cleavage in the heat- treated experiments consistently showed no significant carbon isotope fractionation. By comparison, biodegradation-specific εC values ranging from − 5.5 ± 0.1 ‰ to − 7.2 ± 0.5 ‰ were previously reported during malathion degradation in slurry experiments, where metabolites indic­ ative of C–O or C–S bond cleavage were identified [57]. However, in the biotic experiment, the multiple biodegradation pathways and the possible small mass loss of profenofos from volatilisation hindered the determination of a reaction-specific εC value for profenofos Fig. 3. Profenofos transformation products in hydrolysis, photolysis, and soil dissipation laboratory experiments. Relative intensity refers to the peak amplitude of transformation product, normalized by the intensity of the profenofos peak. Bond cleavages, formula, and [MH+/-] masses are given in the SI and were obtained from Angthararuk et al. [50]. The occurrence of transformation products within experimental replicates varied by up to 20 %. *Heat-treated soil experiments ** Maximal expected kinetic isotope effect (KIE) determined from tabulated Streitwieser Limits *** AKIE values based on εc obtained in various profenofos dissipation exper­ iments and on the most significant detected transformation products. a since carbon is not directly involved in the bond cleavage, the isotope effect is secondary and presumed to be minimal [51]. b from Palau et al. [52]. c from Elsner et al. [51]. d from Cook [53]. J. Masbou et al. Journal of Hazardous Materials 488 (2025) 137428 7 biodegradation. Overall, the combined analysis of transformation products and car­ bon isotopic signatures enabled (i) the determination of pathway- specific isotope fractionation as reference data (Fig. 4) and (ii) the identification and differentiation of the primary dissipation processes occurring in soil. When integrated into a specifically tailored model, this approach can be applied under complex field conditions to evaluate the environmental fate of profenofos and its TPs, as well as the associated risks on water resources. 3.4.