 SUMMARY It can be stated that Farmer Producer Organizations of IIMR are playing a major role in bringing farmers together by helping them in identifying markets, creating a unique platform for collective purchase of inputs and marketing of produce in bulk, thereby eliminating or reducing the number of intermediaries in the existing supply channel. IIMR is involved in integrating FPOs with both forward and backward linkages in agriculture with the objective of bringing economies of scale to the farmers, by having developing business models for each of the FPOs based on the crops grown and the nature of activities that the FPO could be able to undertake. FPOs are also involved in facilitating technical guidance, providing inputs like good quality millet seeds and fertilizer, aggregation of produce, processing of produce, storage, and distribution of produce with better market linkages between the members of FPOs-food industries- organization. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: sangappa@millets.res.in Successful business models of ICAR-IIMR FPOs Successful business models of ICAR-IIMR FPOs With the technical and institutional support from ICAR-IIMR, the FPOs are running successfully by creating their own models. Successful models of four FPOs are Annigeri, Tekmal, Hulsuru and Lambasingi. Annigeri and Hulsuru Farmer Producer Company (FPC) are Karnataka based which help small and marginal farmers in and around by providing farm Authors ! Upload your article for Indian Farming and visit https//epubs.icar.org.in Indian Farming 107 January 2023 Value addition in millets through agricultural processing techniques P Hemasankari*, B Dayakar Rao, V M Malathi, E Kiranmai and C V Rathnavathi ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Millets play a major role in eradicating the malnourishment and are poor man’s crop. Major millets include sorghum, bajra and ragi, and minor millets include proso, barnyard, little, foxtail and kodo millet. Value addition is defined as any activity that is done to improve the value of the product by both primary and secondary processing. Value addition in millets includes destoning, grading, cleaning and aspirating the dirt from the freshly harvested millets. Machines used in processing of millets generally reduce the drudgery of human effort and the time involved in processing. Dehulling is done for minor millets and polishing is done for major millets to make value added products. Puffed and flaked millets are produced to gain revenue for the underutilized marketable millets and to fetch most out of the millets. Keywords: Dehulling, Millets, Nutritional value, Puffed and flaked, Value addition T HE value-addition of millets produces a variety of marketable products. The millet grains are grinded into flour, coarse flour usually called semolina and fine flour known as atta.