 HPLC analysis before and after encapsulation confirmed that catechins were completely recovered in the niosomes. Aqueous solubility of catechin improved after their nanoencapsulation. Free catechins were highly photosensitive to artificial UV light, whereas nanoencapsulated forms exhibited good photo stability. The catechins-loaded niosomes exhibited a sustained release under simulated GI conditions. Antioxidant activity of catechins was retained in the niosomes. The niosomes were stable up to 30 and 90 days at 30°C and 5°C, respectively. In the second approach, resveratrol and catechins were converted into the dry proniosomes using GRAS encapsulants. The morphological, ultrastructural, entrapment and release properties of resveratrol and catechins-loaded proniosomes were evaluated for fortification in milk. Maltodextrin produced proniosomes with hydrodynamic diameter below 200 nm and entrapment efficiency above 90%. Also, catechins were converted into electrospun nanofibres. The surface morphology and topography of the nanofibres and the antioxidant activity and release characteristics of catechins were determined. The nanofibres had cylindrical and non-porous ultrastructure with continuous three-dimensional network, and mean fibre diameter and encapsulation efficiency less than 100 nm and 92%, respectively. Role of dietary trace minerals in animals: Feeding rats higher (300 to 450 ppb) than recommended (150 ppb) level of Se in the purified diet and exposed to heat stress conditions for 6 h daily for two weeks resulted in restoration of blood hemoglobin and hepatic function, maintenance of higher serum T3 and insulin hormones levels and reduced heat stress induced oxidative stress by decreasing serum MDA levels besides increasing serum GSH, catalase and SOD enzyme activity. However, serum GPx activity of the heat stressed rats increased only with 450 ppb Se level. Selenium at 300 and 450 ppb concentration in the diet significantly reduced serum pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1 and 450 ppb Se significantly improved anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10, however, 300 ppb Se in the diet improved humoral immunity of rats reared under stress conditions. Hence, Selenium at 450 ppb level ameliorated heat stress induced harmful effects by improving antioxidant status, regulating thyroid and insulin hormone, reducing inflammatory cytokines and improving humoral immunity indicating higher requirement of dietary selenium under heat stress conditions. On assessing the effects of higher dietary levels of trace element zinc it was found that higher zinc at 24 and 36 ppm level lowered oxidative stress biomarker in rats.