 The second advantage is the use of kernels or covariance functions to reduce the processing time. The best prediction performance was achieved with hybrid models developed by integrating GPR with RT models with the aid of dimensionality reduction and active learning techniques 6. Dimensionalit y Reduction Using Principal Component Analysis (PCA) Because the acquired hyperspectral imagery consists of 269 bands, such a large number of contiguous bands may easily lead to suboptimal performance in the ML models due to spectral redundancy (Hughes phenomenon). To reduce redundancy and computational time while optimizing accuracy, a suitable dimensionality reduction strategy is to be applied. The MLRA toolbox in ARTMO provides eleven dimensionality reduction techniques for retrieving the most significant statistical variables. According to the analysis of all of them as a trade-off between accuracy and runtime in various settings, the PCA with 20 components is the most recommended one for retrieving multiple crop traits from hyperspectral datasets using GPR 7. Active Learning Methods and Field Verification In RT modelling, a large, simulated dataset introduces redundancy and even makes it impossible to develop hybrid regression models for retrieving specific crop traits. In order to reduce the sample size without altering the model’s predictive performance, noisy and reluctant samples may be removed by adopting an effective sample selection criterion. In solving regression problems related to the prediction of crop traits using Earth observation data products, two types of active learning (AL) methods are widely used, i.e., uncertainty and diversity methods Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report nitrogen levels (0, 50, 100, 150, and 200 kg N ha-1), and three irrigation treatments (soil moisture sensor-based treatment (I1); crop water stress index (CWSI)-based treatment (12); and conventional treatment (13)) 2. Pre- Includes resizing, normalization, noise reduction processing 3. Augmentation Flipping, Rotation, Zooming, Brightness adjustments 4. PROSAIL The simulated dataset from PROSAIL RTM was used for Simulations retrieving wheat biophysical traits. PROSAIL is a and Model combined RTM of the PROSPECT-4 leaf reflectance model Evaluation and the 4-SAIL canopy reflectance model 5. Gaussian First, it provides an additional quantitative measurement Process of prediction accuracy in terms of uncertainty estimates Regression (co). A lower o indicates a better prediction for crop traits. (GPR) The second advantage is the use of kernels or covariance functions to reduce the processing time. The best prediction performance was achieved with hybrid models developed by integrating GPR with RT models with the aid of dimensionality reduction and active learning techniques 6.