 Principles in the formal system are to maintain varietal identity and purity and to produce seed of optimal physical, physiological and sanitary quality. Certified seed marketing and distribution takes place through a limited number of officially recognized seed outlets, usually for financial sale. Local seed system: It is basically what the formal system is not. Encompassing a wider range of seed system variations, what characterizes the local system most is its flexibility. Varieties may be landraces or mixed races and may be heterogeneous (modified through breeding and use). In addition, the seed can be of variable quality (of different purity and physical and physiological quality). The steps do not flow in a linear sequence and they are not monitored or controlled by government policies and regulations. Rather, they are guided by local technical knowledge and standards and by local social structures and norms. Despite, their variability and local specificity to needs and preferences, local channels (e.g. household stocks, markets and social exchange networks) provide most of the seed that most small farmers’ use. The rise of international treaties awarding intellectual property rights in the plant genetic resources to plant breeders had resulted an erosion of agricultural biodiversity as well of indigenous farmers’ lifestyle. Farmers’ Rights has emerged in recognizing the role that traditional farmers play in conserving, creating and promoting genetic diversity in the food supply and the importance of maintaining traditional agriculture practices. According to the FAO, food security results when people “at all times, have physical and economic access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food to meet their dietary needs and food preferences for an active and healthy life.” Arguably, the most effective way for a group to ensure its food security is to have control over the production of its own food. The continuous development of new varieties ensures genetic diversity in the food supply and enables communities to achieve food security. Farmers’ Rights need to co-exist with intellectual property rights over new 53 Sustainable Agriculture varieties and propagating material generated by (formal) breeders. Seeking to assure a market, recognize investments and promote innovation, the rights grant exclusive rights limiting free access and use of plant genetic resources in specific circumstances. The mutual interface of Farmers’ Rights and Breeders’ Rights becomes a daily challenge. The recognition of both forms of rights and their importance in achieving food security and alleviating poverty, needs to be a priority and a reality for the public and private sectors. Key takeaways The farmers rights enable the farmers to continue in maintaining, developing and managing their crop genetic resources. Farmers’ Rights help them for their indispensable contribution in recognizing and rewarding farmers in the global pool of genetic resources.