 Likewise, scholarly investigations have examined the determinants of climate-smart technology utilization, with Tanti et al. (2022) delving into institutional, social, and other pertinent issues. The phenomenon of technology adoption in the agricultural sector has been extensively examined using a standard utility model, which considers the key de- terminants to be the characteristics of farmers (referred to as human capital) and the structure of farms (referred to as physical capital) (Abdulai and Huffman, 2014; Wossen et al., 2015). These studies fail to acknowledge the interdependence between individual decision-making and the broader societal framework (Oreszczyn et al., 2010). More- over, this intricate social structure plays a signiﬁcant role in shaping institutions that cater to the comprehensive needs of individuals, encompassing their physical, economic, and cultural aspects. As 3 For a detailed deﬁnition of social capital, see Claridge (2004). D. Sahoo et al. Farming System 3 (2025) 100124 3 previously mentioned, this study argues that elements associated with social capital play a key role in the adoption decision-making process. Nevertheless, the manner in which the different components of social capital interact to inﬂuence the conduct of the producer remains ambiguous. Gaining an understanding of these relationships may yield valuable insights into the social capital elements that have the potential to impact decision-making processes and ultimately shape individual behaviour. This statement presents two inquiries. The inquiry pertains to the correlation between social capital and the use of technology by farmers, as well as the interrelationships among various dimensions of social capital. Hence, it is imperative to construct a Social Capital Framework (SCF) in order to comprehensively comprehend the collective inﬂuence of various forms of capital on the technology adoption process, particularly in relation to climate-smart technologies. This is particularly relevant given the evolving agricultural practices resulting from the challenges posed by climate change. The present study is an earnest attempt to contribute towards achieving this objective. 2. Material and methods 2.1. Data, sampling and analytical framework The study employed a combination of multi-stage simple random sampling and judgmental sampling procedures. The unit of observation consists of households that are directly or indirectly engaged in agri- cultural and/or allied activities. Hence, this study has utilized primary data obtained from households (chosen using appropriate sampling methodology) to derive pertinent results. The current study utilized primary data obtained from rural agrarian households in Odisha, India, in October 2019. Odisha is located on the eastern coast of India, adjacent to the Bay of Bengal. It shares its boundaries with Jharkhand to the north, West Bengal to the northeast, Chhattisgarh to the west, and Andhra Pradesh to the south.