 The NBP model based on compound mixture of Poisson- Gamma distribution is used as a parametric statistic and fold-change value derived using fold-change rank ordering statistics (FCROS) algorithm is used as non- parametric statistic. The performance of NBPFCROS model was compared with NBP, FCROS, edgeR and DESeq2 models using synthetic and real RNA-Seq datasets, and the developed model NBPFCROS was found more robust compared to other models. Trend free partially balanced incomplete block designs: In agricultural, animal, fisheries and industrial experimentation under block design setup, systematic trend may affect the response under consideration. Considering this, a method of constructing classes of trend free partially balanced incomplete block (TR-PBIB) designs based on different association schemes were developed. For providing readymade solutions to the end users, SAS macros for the generation of such designs were also developed and made available in public domain. Sampling methodologies: (i) Different methodologies for the commodity groups and corresponding three guidelines for the estimation of post- harvest losses of fruits and vegetables, livestock (meat and milk) and fish products, were developed. These were accepted by FAO, Rome, for adoption, and were field tested in Mexico, Zambia, Nepal and Thailand. (ii) Sampling methodology for 2019/20 Lao Agriculture Census was developed, which was recommended and adopted by FAO for conducting Agriculture Census and generating estimates for parameters of interests for Lao, PDR. This methodology consists of Village component, Complete Enumeration component, and Sample component. A suitable sampling strategy was proposed for Sample Component and estimation procedure was developed as per the proposed sampling strategy. The developed estimation procedure includes calculation of sample weights, effect of non-response and obtaining estimates along with standard errors. Detection of outliers: Statistics were developed for detection of outliers in presence of masking in survey weighted regression. A calibrated estimator was developed for outlier imputation when auxiliary variables are available in sample surveys. The R code was written Mobile Apps developed Integrated Sample Survey Solutions for Major Livestock Products An android-based application-eLISS data collection app was developed and is available on google play store to capture data from the field, which was collected manually using paper-based schedules by the enumerators. All the eight schedules of Integrated Sample Survey (ISS) scheme are captured by the app. This data collection app also selects second stage sample of households/enterprises in the selected villages/urban wards. The data captured through this app is to be synced to server. The major feature of the app is that it records the location at which data were collected, provides real time monitoring and offline data collection.