 Grey mullet, Mugil cephalus Spiny eel, Macrognathus pancalus • Maskara barb (Dawkinsia assimilis) was successfully bred in captivity for the first time at RRC ICAR-CIFA, Bathinda. Fishes were procured from Bengaluru, Karnataka (9.5±0.5 cm/13±2 g) and reared in glass tank (200 L). On attaining Peninsular carp, Labeo kontius • Three endemic fishes from the Western Ghats in Kerala, Malabar labeo (Labeo dussumieri), yellow catfish (Horabagrus brachysoma) and naadanmushi (Clarias dussumieri) were induced LIVESTOCK IMPROVEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 72 rearing of Genetically-Improved Farmed Tilapia (GIFT) under zero-water discharge inland saline water at a carbon: nitrogen ratio of 15:1. Biofloc reactor was designed and fabricated for sludge processing from the biofloc units into microbial protein. Process optimization for the reactor required four days of sludge retention, intermittent aeration (12 h) and bioflocculating agent (30 ppm). Field validation of carp sperm cryopreservation technology Technology on carp sperm cryopreservation was field- tested and successfully upscaled for use in improving hatchery seed quality and genetic exchange through field demonstrations for Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Haryana. During the year, 800 ml of milt from riverine stocks of Indian major carp was cryopreserved and stored in cryobank. Using cryopreserved milt, the genetically diversified seed was produced in selected hatcheries of Bihar, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Approximately 40 lakh of spawn were produced at the selected hatcheries in the above states. bred in hatchery conditions from wild-collected fishes raised to broodstock in pond conditions over a year. Spawn were reared in FRP tanks, fed with live feed and powdered artificial feed till they become the size, ready to distribute. A total of 3.5 lakh fry seed of L. dussumieri was provided to the farmers and Fisheries Department of Kerala. Enhancement of fish production in floodplain wetland: Enhanced fish production was successfully demonstrated in the Kothia Maun of Bihar through necessary infrastructure which included 2 ha earthen- nursery pond, 0.8 ha CIFRI pen, six CIFRI GI cages, water-screen net at inlet and outlet of the wetland, 30 monofilament gill nets and one 12 ft OAL fibre boat. Altogether 8.726 tonnes fish seeds of catla, rohu, mrigal, grass carp, common carp and amur carp were stocked in the open wetland, nursery ponds, cages and pens, and training and skill development programmes were undertaken for 300 fishers. This activity brought awareness and perception change among the fishers regarding various aspects and techniques of fisheries management of floodplain wetland. Each year fish yield from stocked fishes under fisheries enhancement programme improved in a successive manner from 40.42 kg/ha/year in the first year (2018–19) to 111.