 Price transmission in major pulses value chain: The direction and extent of price transmission along the value chain of major pulses in Delhi were analyzed using monthly data collected from DES and DoCA for the period January 2009 to December 2019 for grain wholesale, dal wholesale, and dal retail. The gram/tur value chains analysed are Chain-I: gram/tur wholesale-dal wholesale; Chain-II: dal wholesale-dal retail; and Chain-III: gram/tur wholesale-dal retail. The Johansen cointegration analysis for gram/tur value chains indicated one cointegrating vector between the dal wholesale and gram/tur wholesale (Chain-I), and dal retail and gram/arhar wholesale (Chain-III) meaning that these price pairs are cointegrated and move together in the long-run. However, the results indicated no cointegrating relationship in Chain-II for both the pulses.The causality tests (wald) are performed for gram value chains (Chain-I: grain wholesale- dal wholesale; Chain-II: dal wholesale- dal retail; Chain- III: grain wholesale- dal retail) based on the estimated VECM models in the Johansen framework indicated that the upstream prices dominate the downstream prices and thus, play a price discovery role in the vertical markets analysed. In the case of tur, the wald test for causality results (long-run, short-run and strong exogeneity) indicated that the wholesale price of dal granger causes Tur wholesale price in Chain-I. However, State average normalized value of agrobiodiversity indicators ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 125 SOCIAL SCIENCE in Chain-III, long-run and strong exogeneity tests supported the bidirectional causality between the retail price of dal and wholesale price of Tur. Threshold cointegration (TAR, MTAR and their consistent counterpart) and test of long-run asymmetry in the speed of adjustment were estimated for both pulses for chain-I and chain-III. The consistent MTAR model has the best threshold value with the lowest sum of squared errors estimated for both the supply chains of gram (I and III). The point estimates (MTAR model) for the price adjustment in gram value chain I is –0.456 for negative shocks and –0.189 for positive shocks, implying that the negative deviations from the long-run equilibrium resulting from an increase in dal wholesale price or decrease in gram wholesale price (Δξt–1>= 0.01) were eliminated faster at 45.6% per month (takes 6 months to converge to long-run equilibrium). However, the positive shocks were eliminated at 19% per month (takes about 2 months). In the case of gram value chain III, the positive shocks adjusted faster (four months) than the negative shocks (six months) in the long-run equilibrium. In the case of tur chain-I, negative deviations takes about 3 months, whereas positive deviations takes 6 months to adjust to the long-term equilibrium. In the case of Chain-III, positive deviations in prices adjust faster (in about two months) than the negative deviations (in about 6 months).