in 57 2002‐2007 Post Harvest Technology: We have been working for improvement in post harvest self life and biochemical changes during storage with especial concentration on milky mushroom. Some results are already published and others under further confirmation. Germplasm Collection: New records have been collected rom hills of Mirzapur and during last two years gardens, forest areas and hills of Faizabad, Sultanpur, Jaunpur, Varanasi, Mirzapur, Allahabad and Pratapgarh districts have been surveyed. A total of 106 samples were collected, out of which, 31 were Volvariella spp., 19 of Termitomyces spp., 23 of Ganoderma spp. 16 of Calocybe indica and 17 of unidentified edible mushrooms. Selected fruiting bodies were tissue cultured for further studies. It will take further few years time in the development of cultivation technologies of few identified species. Survey and surveillance: Cultivation of button mushroom has been influenced by the fungi like Trichoderma viride, Penicillium spp., Coprinus spp. and Cladosporium cludosporioides. Cultivation of oyster mushroom was affected by Trichoderma spp., Aspergillus spp. and Coprinus spp.; and bacterial infection in beds. Milky mushroom was affected by Coprinus spp. and Trichoderma spp. Occurrence of insects has although been recorded but with almost no effect on fruiting bodies. Transfer of Technology: Total of 15 on‐campus and 15 off‐campus training programs were organized in which total 760 participants participated. The mushroom cultivation technology was also demonstrated to 450 farmers of the area. Total 1845 kg of commercial mushroom spawn was supplied to the mushroom growers. Mushrooms (12.69quintal) were also sold. Seventeen (17) TV Talks were delivered. Participated in Kisan Melas organized by the University during both Kharif and Rabi seasons. Delivered lectures in Vocational Trainings for rural youth organized by KVKs. Indira Gandhi Krishi Vishva Vidhalaya, Raipur (C.G.): White Button Mushroom (Agaricus bisporus): Strains, CM 3 and CM 7 of Agaricus bisporus were found superior with regards to economic yield in consecutive five years experiment trials under Chhattisgarh ecosystem. Oyster Mushroom (Pleurotus spp.): Pilot scale project on cultivation of Pleurotus spp. on Paddy/Wheat straw with hot water treatment produced higher yield of P. florida. Oyster mushroom cultivation was made popular and suitable for Chhattisgarh Region. A new variety “Indira Sweta” was identified and released by SVRC at this Centre. www.icar.org.in 58 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Horticulture Other Mushrooms: Wheat + Paddy straw substrate in ratio of 1:1 was found to be the best substrate for higher yield of Calocybe indica in five years study. Partially composed cotton waste was found to be the most suitable media for production of paddy straw mushroom based on consecutive five years experimentation.