 Dipping of seedlings root in fungicides (carbendazin @ 0.1%) and insecticide (monocrotophos @ 0.1%) solution before transplanting helps in better establishment of seedlings. The spacing depends upon the variety and size of the bulbs. In common, big size onion 15 cm from line to line and 10 cm from plant to plant is considered to be the best spacing. For raised bed planting method, spacing of 10 cm × 10 cm to 12 cm × 10 cm in trend is more suitable for higher yield and storability of bulbs. The irrigations depend on several factors such as crop growth, soil type and planting season. Onion is shallow rooted crop. Its root system is normally restricted to top 3.0 cm and roots penetrate seldom deeper than 15 cm. The water requirement of the crop at the initial growth period is less. The irrigation interval of 15 days in rabi onion up to 60 days and 8 days afterwards gave better results. One irrigation is necessary immediately after transplanting particularly in rainy season in Northern India where temperature at the time of transplanting is very high. It has been experienced that if irrigation is delayed due to some reasons there is 80-90% mortality. At bulb formation, irrigation is necessary and moisture stress at this stage results in low yield. It is reported that onion cultivar CO-4 to be irrigated at IW/CPE values of 0.6, 0.8, 1.0 or 1.2 during kharif and summer seasons. Bulb yield increased as IW/CPE value increased. Water use efficiency was greatest when onion was irrigated at IW/CPE of 1.2. Irrigation at 3-day intervals significantly affected number of leaves per plant, plant height at maturity, bulb yield, bulb weight, number of cloves per bulb and clove weight, while, increase in number of days between irrigation intervals negatively affected growth and yield. Among the irrigation methods evaluated, drip irrigation at 100% PE recorded the highest marketable bulb yield in both the crops with 30-40% water saving in comparison with surface irrigation. Weed management and micronutrients spray Being closely planted and a shallow rooted crop, hand weeding, particularly when crop is in full vegetative stage, is difficult. Many times, because of shortage of labour, it is difficult to manage weeds manually. Further it is expensive too. Therefore, it is recommended to use weedicide along with one hand weeding at critical stage. Use of stomp @ 3.5 L/ha applied 3 days after transplanting plus one hand weeding at 45 days gave better results. Oxyflurofen (goal) @ 1 ml/L spray after 3 days planting is very effective with one hand weeding is also found very effective. Spray of cytozyme @ 0.2% spray at 15 and 45 days after transplanting are found effective. Seedlings root dip for 20 min before planting and foliar sprays are found more effective in bulb development and higher yield. The application of bio-algeen, a sea weed product as seedling sprays @ 2 ml/L, as root dip @ 0.