3% per year, and growth of urban population between 3 and 3.5% per annum, yearly increase in the overall quantity of solid waste in the cities is about 5%. Waste collection efficiency ranges from 50% to 90%. Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) spend between `₹500/- to ` 1500/- per ton on solid waste management, of which 60 to 70% is spent on collection alone, 20 to 30% on transportation and less than 5% on treatment and disposal which is very essential to prevent environmental pollution. Crude dumping is normally resorted to by ULBs without adopting scientific and hygienic approach of sanitary land filling (MSW/ MSW_AnnualReport_2020-21). Crop residues are natural resources with tremendous value to farmers. These residues are used as animal feed, in composting, thatching for rural homes and fuel for domestic and industrial use. About 25% of nitrogen and phosphorus each, 50% of sulphur and 75% of potassium uptake by cereal crops are retained in residues, making them valuable sources of nutrients. However, a large portion of the residues is burned in field primarily to clear the field from straw and stubble after the harvest of the preceding crop. The problem is severe in irrigated agriculture, particularly in the mechanized rice-wheat system. The main reasons for burning crop residues in field include unavailability of labour, high cost in removing the residues and use of combines in rice-wheat cropping system especially in the Indo-Gangetic plains. According to the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE), India generates on an average 500 Million Tonnes (MT) of crop residue per year. Majority of this crop residue is used as fodder and fuel for other domestic and industrial purposes. However, there is still a surplus of 140 MT out of which 92 MT is burned each year. The two crops rice and wheat produce a large amount of residues in India. Crop waste burning is popular in NW India (Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and western Uttar Pradesh) where rice wheat crops are harvested and threshed mechanically. Nowadays crop wastes burning is spreading throughout country with popularization of use of combine in rice wheat cropping system. Around 30-40 years back, animals were integral part of farmer’s family and all crop wastes were used as feed to animal. Every household had one compost pit in which farmers used to decompose organic wastes along with cow dung but with mechanization in agriculture activities, viz. ploughing, harvesting, sowing, etc. compost pits have disappeared in past few years. Population of animals decreased significantly in the villages. Therefore, use of crop wastes as feed of animals decreased significantly. Recently, during Swachh Bharat Abhiyan people are burning organic wastes throughout India for cleaning of the places. According to a conservative estimation, around 34 million tonnes of crop wastes are produced in Haryana, Punjab, Uttarakhand and western Uttar Pradesh. 23 million tonnes crop wastes are burnt annually.