 Mandibular gland of queen bee secretes queen substance (9-oxo-2- decenoic acid) which inhibits ovary development of worker bees and makes it sterile. The commercial production of royal jelly is mainly related to mass rearing of queen bee, because queen larvae can not consume the royal jelly at a rate at which it is supplied to them and there is always surplus royal jelly which can be extracted at the cost of queen larvae. The most popular method of mass queen bee rearing is grafting method given by Doolittle in 1951. Other methods like cup kit method may also be used. The most suitable time for royal jelly production is during honey flow period, when pollen and nectar are sufficiently available, i.e. November–March. The production of royal jelly is suitable for both large as well as small apiarists, having only 15–20 bee boxes. Mass production of queen bee by grafting method One day old larvae are grafted in artificial queen cell cup, attached in frame with the help of grafting needle. After that, the frame containing queen cell cup is placed in a queen less bee hive or in super chamber having queen excluder where queen bee cannot move. Preparation of queen cell cup: To prepare queen cell cup, a solid wooden stick about 10–15 cm long with its one tip of pencil thickness (9–10 mm diameter) and other slightly broader is used. Pure bee Indian Farming 19 April 2023 wax and one table spoon honey are required. For bee wax, old wax sheet or extra wax comb made in a bee box may be used. The bee wax is kept in a bowl and is melted by putting hot water. A dilute solution is prepared by mixing honey in one glass of water. The tip of stick is dipped in honey water solution and excess liquid is shaken off and then the stick is dipped in molten wax to a depth of 8–9 mm. Then, it is held in open air until the wax solidifies and this process is repeated 5–6 times. Every successive dip in wax should be 1 mm lesser, so that cup is obtained with good base and thin walls. After cooling, the wax is removed from the cup with slight twist. The queen cell cup can be used repeatedly for queen bee rearing. The farmers can easily purchase readymade queen cell cups from the market. Attachment of cup cell: Horizontally, 2–3 wooden bars at equal distance between top and bottom in a wooden frame are used to fix wax sheet. These queen cup cells are glued at the bar with 10 cm distance from each other. Before grafting, the cup cells may be kept in a colony overnight to make them more acceptable. The cells may be primed with royal jelly before grafting. Larval grafting: For grafting, one day old larvae are selected and placed one by one in queen cup with the help of grafting needle. The young larvae are very delicate, so grafting should be done very carefully. Four days before grafting, a blank wax sheet in a hive should be placed so that eggs laid on the same day hatch three days before grafting. The frame with grafted larvae is then given to queenless colony.