 Keywords: earthen pot, lime juice, stick, light reflection Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Spraying of a mixture of garlic Farmers of Sindhkheda and Director of Extension  extract and monocrotophos to control bollworm in cotton Shirpur tehsils of Dhule district and Kopargaon tehsil in Ahmednagar district are using this practice. Garlic bulbs are crushed and soaked in water to draw extract. This extract is added to monocrotophos and it is sprayed on cotton to control cotton bollworm. Keywords: garlic extract, monocrotophos, cotton, bollworm Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Control of cotton pests by using jaggery In cotton, small farmers of Pachora and Bhadgaon tehsils of Jalgaon district and Shevgaon and Newasa telsils of Ahmednagar district in Maharashtra use jaggery to control pests. Small jaggery particles are put at the bottom of a cotton plant. It helps increase the population of ants, which eat aphids, bollworms etc. Normally a numbers of sprayings are required to control cotton pests by using insecticides. Due to use of jaggery particles, the pests are controlled, which requires no technical skill and the cost involved is also quite little. Keywords: cotton, pest, jaggery particles, ant Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of tobacco decoction to control cotton bollworm Tobacco is soaked in water overnight. The extracted decoction is used for spraying to control bollworm in cotton. This practice is being followed in Dhule and Ahmednagar districts of Maharashtra. Keywords: tobacco, decoction, cotton bollworm Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of garlic and chilli extract to control pests in cotton An extract is prepared using 500 g garlic and red chillies. The extract is added to 100 litres water, mixed with 200 g soap and sprayed on cotton to control sucking as well as other pests. This practice is in vogue in Dhule and Ahmednagar districts of Maharashtra. Keywords: cotton, pests, garlic- chilli extract Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of neem seed powder to control bollworm and sucking pests of cotton, chilli and onion About 5 kg neem seed is well dried in sun, ground to powder form and soaked in 10 litres warer for overnight. It is then added in 90 litres water and 500 g soap is added as sticker. This solution is sprayed on cotton, chilli and onion to control pests. Farmers of Nandurbar, Dhule, Jalgaon and Ahmednagar districts of Maharashtra are using Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722  this practice.