 The overall prevalence of the disease in Western Himalayan region was much lower compared to northern plains and Rajasthan. Ticks being the vectors of important diseases, demand a constant watch. Cattle tick surveys covering Rajasthan, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh were conducted during maximum tick activity season i.e. April to November in arid, semi-arid, sub- humid, humid and cold arid regions of India. The districts surveyed were Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Churu (Rajasthan); Hisar, Jind, Kaithal, Karnal, Kurkshetra, Ambala, Panchkula, (Haryana); Sirmaur, Solan, Shimla and Kinnaur (Himachal Pradesh). From Pokaran (Jaisalmer) to Pooh (Reckong Peo) area about 1,200 km was surveyed along main roads. Cattle (2,334) of all age groups, including native and crossbreds, were surveyed and 81.53% of them were found infested with ticks. Dairy farms, individual house holds with a few cattle, gaushalas and animal visiting veterinary hospital premises in villages and cities were the survey sites. Hyalomma anatolicum anatolicum, H. dromedarii, H. marginatum isaaci, Rhipicephalus haemaphysaloides, Boophilus microplus, Haemaphysalis bispinosa, Ixodes ovatus and Ornithodoros savignyi were collected from cattle. The prevalence of tick species was described either as predominant (tick species found on > 25% of the infested cattle) or common (tick species found on 5-25% of the infested cattle) or rare (tick species found on < 5% of the infested cattle). The prevalence of H.a. anatolicum changed from a predominant tick in Rajasthan to a common tick in Haryana to a non-prevalent tick in Shimla district and beyond in Himachal Pradesh. The prevalence of B. microplus changed from a non-prevalent tick in Jaisalmer to a predominant tick in Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. The prevalence of other five ixodid ticks varied with the location. Hyalomma dromedarii was a common tick in Rajasthan, rare in Haryana while this was not found during the present survey in Himachal Pradesh. Haemaphysalis bispinosa was a common tick in Himachal Pradesh, a rare tick in Haryana, but it was not found in Rajasthan. Hyalomma m. isaaci and R. haemaphysaloides were also seen rarely on cattle in Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. Ixodes sp ticks were only encountered in Shimla and Kinnaur. Ixodes ovatus was a common tick in Shimla and a predominant tick in Kinnaur. Amongst the Argasid ticks, O. savignyi was the only cattle tick found commonly in the animal sheds in all the four districts of Rajasthan and rarely in Hisar district of Haryana. Boophilus, Haemaphysalis, Rhipicephalus and Ixodes ticks were prevalent in various animal species of Arunachal Pradesh whereas in Assam, Haemophysalis and Boophilus were the predominant ticks. On blood smear examination, Babesia infection was detected in six cattle, one mithun and one yak in Arunachal Pradesh and Assam. Theileria annulata exhibited antigenic diversity amongst various isolates prevalent in different parts of the world.