 Additionally, parboiling may have damaged the protein structure, resulting in a weakened barrier between the starch and the enzymes [7]. 6. Potential Use Rice Fortiﬁcation Fortiﬁcation is the process of adding nutrients to foods to improve their nutritional value. Rice is widely consumed as a staple food and can be used as a vehicle for food fortiﬁcation. Rice fortiﬁcation is an efﬁcient and cost-effective technique for increasing micronutrient intake in rice-consuming countries. Diets in underdeveloped nations are pre- dominantly composed of cereal-based products. They lack micronutrients and only meet the daily minimum for many vital elements [98]. A successful fortiﬁcation method should have a high micronutrient content, excellent bioavailability, excellent storage stability, and the retention of sensory attributes. There are several methods of rice fortiﬁcation, including pre- and post-harvest fortiﬁcation, where post-harvest fortiﬁcation includes germination, soaking and parboiling, sonication, dusting, spraying/coating, and extrusion [99]. Parboil- ing is one of the typical non-destructive methods used to improve the nutritional value of rice. Nutrient-rich water may be used to soak paddy during the soaking steps. The parboiling procedure permits micronutrients in the bran to permeate the endosperm, which is often removed during milling and polishing. Increasing the external availability of micronutrients in soaking water can improve endosperm quality. Thus, rice is steeped in micronutrient-rich water. With the introduction of water, dissolved micronutrients inﬁltrate the kernel and become densely packed [99]. Table 6 represents the fortiﬁcation of parboiled rice. The head rice yield was unaffected by the soaking method or fortiﬁer [18]. Due to their negative effect on total concentration in the parboiled rice grains, increasing milling time and washing the parboiled rice reduced mineral bioavailability. However, consumption of the mineral in fortiﬁed parboiled rice is Agriculture 2023, 13, 1390 15 of 24 still much greater than that of unfortiﬁed raw or parboiled rice grains [100]. In most cases, parboiling begins with paddy, while in other cases, parboiling is performed on dehulled rice (brown rice). In these processes, the fortiﬁed rice is soaked, steamed, and ﬁnally dried. This procedure reduces the number of additives lost during dehulling [101,102]. Sonication and minimal water soaking can be used to intensify the soaking procedure. Rice nutrient absorption was promoted by limited water soaking, as opposed to to excessive water soaking [35]. Rice grain sonication encourages the development of surface micropores. Rice surface modiﬁcation increased vitamin absorption by up to 140%. Sonicated rice absorbs 94% more vitamins than non-sonicated rice [103]. Table 6. Fortiﬁcation of parboiled rice.