 / Data in Brief 55 (2024) 110632 3 unsafe handling practices, and the use of banned chemicals. Indian farmers are encountering severe health issues such as respiratory diseases, skin problems, headaches, and asthma. In re- sponse to these challenges, India has prohibited several highly toxic pesticide compounds and actively promotes sustainable agricultural practices. The government is advocating for Integrated Pest Management (IPM), which has shown promise: trained IPM farmers use 36 % less pesticides. These farmers utilize improved seed varieties, biopesticides, non-toxic chemicals, and eﬃcient irrigation and fertilization practices. Embracing IPM and sustainable techniques can strengthen India’s agricultural sector, ensuring food security and safeguarding the environment for future generations. India is the fourth-largest producer and ninth-largest consumer of chemical pesticides. De- spite all modernisation effort s, the country’s heavy reliance on chemical pesticides in conven- tional agriculture poses a major challenge to crop protection, environmental sustainability and public health . Government data shows that around 75,0 0 0 tonnes of pesticides have been used annually since 1990, with the average over the last ten years being 61,0 0 0 tonnes [ 3 ]. This con- sumption, which is increasing by 10-20 % annually, equates to an average of 396g of an active ingredient per hectare. The escalating use of pesticides requires immediate and strategic action to reduce the negative impact on ecosystems, human health and the resilience of agriculture. Epidemiological studies show that exposure to pesticides can cause wilde range of health prob- lems, from acute gastrointestinal problems neurological symptoms and respiratory diseases [ 4 ]. In addition, chronic health problems such as [ 5 ] and Alzheimer’s disease [ 6 ] and other non- communicable diseases [ 7 ], endocrine disorders and certain cancers have also been linked to pesticide exposure [ 8 ]. Recent research suggests that prenatal exposure to pesticides can lead to lower IQ and neurological problems in children, increasing the risk of neurological and develop- mental disorders [ 9 ]. Pesticides enter the body through inhalation, ingestion and skin contact, accumulate in fatty tissue and inhibit AChE activity. Metabolites such as DAP interfere with cel- lular and enzymatic processes, leading to health complications. Therefore, DAP metabolites and AChE enzymes are biomarkers in studies to assess pesticide exposure and its health effects. In this study, the impact of pesticide exposure on farmers in Telangana, India, is investigated with a focus on the health effects of chronic organophosphate exposure. By using biomarkers such as acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and dialkyl phosphate (DAP) concentrations. This study aims to provide a comprehensive assessment of the neurological and general health effects due to pesticide use.