10 Exhibition: Exhibition is a planned and systematic display of real objects, specimens, models, charts and posters presented to public view for instruction, judging a competition, advertising or entertainment. It helps to create awareness, develop interests and stimulate action amongst the public. It accommodates both exhibits and display. Displays use two dimensional or flat materials like pictures, photograph, chart, posters etc, while exhibits tend to use more three dimensional materials like real objects, specimens and models. 5.11 Farmers’ Field School (FFS): As the name suggests Farmers Field School is a school for the farmers outside the classrooms and on the farms. It operates with the principles of non-formal education and most of the sessions and contents based on the adult learning principles. It seeks to empower people to solve their field problems actively by fostering participation, interaction, dialogue, joint decision-making, self-confidence and self-determination. 5.12 Farm management: It deals with the business principles and principles of farming with an objective of obtaining the maximum possible return from the farm as a unit under a sound farming programme. 5.13 Farming system: It represents an appropriate combination of farm enterprises viz., cropping systems, livestock, fisheries, forestry, poultry and the same means available to the farmer to raise them for profitability. It interacts adequately with environment without dislocating the ecological and socio-economic balance on one hand and attempts to meet the national goals on the other. 5.14 Field day: It is an activity held at the demonstration site at an appropriate stage to share the performance of the technology demonstrated with the potential users of the technology and other stakeholders. 5.15 Field visit: It is a planned activity, which can take place to an intended field either having successful technology models or uniqueness or having certain kind of adversity, which needs attention. It gives exposure to the participants to the real life situation and also provides an idea about the possible solutions to the problems. 5.16 Frontline demonstration: It is the concept of field demonstration evolved by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research with the inception of the Technology Mission on Oilseeds during mid eighties to show the performance of new varieties including recommended production technologies on farmers’ fields under real farm situations for increasing productivity and returns. These demonstrations conducted under the close supervision of scientists of the NARS are called 74 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK frontline demonstrations because the technologies are demonstrated by the scientists themselves before being fed into the main extension system of the State Department of Agriculture.