 Many farmers use this method at times, they do consult veterinary experts (Panchmahal, Gujarat) Baria (1993) 5 Control of diarrhoea by mixture of bark of umra and banana plant To treat diarrhoea during the monsoon, bark of umra and sap of banana (Musa Paradisiaca) plant are used. Approximately 500 g bark of umra is pounded. Approximately 500 ml juice from stem of banana is added in the pounded bark of umra. The mixture is then filtered and the filtrate given to affected animal. One hour after the treatment the animal is fed with 250 ml of groundnut oil.. The animal is cured within a day or two (Valsad, Gujarat). Patel (1996) 185 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 6 Treatment of diarrhoea in cattle The flowers and fruits of Vazhai (Musa ×Paradisiaca), an erect tree-like herb are crushed and made into a paste with dry ginger, pepper, black myrobalan, nut meg and karanda. This is given orally to cattles in forms of severe diarrhoea (Tamil Nadu). Ranjan and Sethuraman (1997) 7 Treatment for rathakalichal (blood tinged diarrohea) Blood tinged loose motion can be noticed in the affected animal. For this leaf of Kombampalai (Holarrhena antidysentrica) 200 g are ground well and diluted with 500 ml of water, one lime fruit Juice is added and the whole mixture is administered to the animal three times a day. Holarrhena antidysentrica acts as a stomachic, purgative, liver stimulant, anti-dysentric and wormicidal. Anonymous (2000-2001f) 8 Medicinal uses of eletteria cardamom Roots and seeds of elaichi (Eletteria cardamom) contain essential oil, terpeniol, terpimine, lemonine, linalnool acetate and are used in cambodian medicine, root and fruit as laxative, tonic and given in diseases of liver and uterus (Gujarat). Parabia et al. (2000) 9 Use of Nagod to control diarrhoea To control diarrhoea, approximately 200-250 g of leaves of nagod (Vitex negundo) are fed to the animal with normal feeds for two or three days. Though the plant of nagod grows as wild shrub in hedges in this region, only a few people from the village know about this use. The nagod plant bears small white flowers throughout the year (Valsad, Gujarat). Bhimsen (1995) 10 Control of diarrhoea in cattle by kodra About 10 kg, of boiled kodra (Paspalum scrobiculatum) grain (one type of coarse millet) to the suffering animal. Kodra grain contains mainly carbohydrates which is easily digestible and act as a balanced diet. It maintains the vitality of animal (Sutaria). Rathod (1992) 11 Treatment of diarrhoea by barley Boiled barley (Hordeum vulgare) or kondo (Paspalum scorbiculatum) is given to suffering animal (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 12 Treatment of diarrhoea with sihor Leaves of sihor (Streblus asper) are fed to suffering animal (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 186 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No.