 Assessment of performance of CAFT participants by peer group and deputing authorities 63 Conclusions and recommendations 65 Bibliography 73 Annexure-I: Questionnaire used for CAFT participants 75 Annexure-II: Questionnaire used for CAFT Directors 86 Annexure_III: Questionnaire used to assess organization-wise impact 89 Annexure-IV: Questionnaire for concurrent evaluation 92 Annexure-V: Questionnaire for assessment of performance of CAFT participants by peer group 95 Annexure-VI: Questionnaire for assessment of performance of CAFT participants by deputing authorities 97 Annexure-VII: Workshop Report 99 Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 3 Executive Summary Training is the crucial but expensive component of human resource development (HRD). It is a planned effort to improve the performance efficiency and effectiveness of members of organization. The performance improvement may be effected through planned learning and transfer of such learnt knowledge, skills and attitude to work place. Training transfer, though, highly desirable outcome of any training programme, has widely been reported as deficit. The main reason being most training programmes fail to inculcate ‘training transfer’ intent in trainees. Hence, there is an increasing concern over the effectiveness of training and training transfer at work place and the resultant improved organizational performance. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) through its scheme on Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) has been supporting the faculty and scientists of National Agricultural Research System (NARS) in the cutting edge areas of agriculture and allied sciences to meet capacity building demands in terms of teaching, research, training and extension. There are 31 such centres established all over the country to build the teaching, research, training and extension competencies of faculty of NARS. During the XI plan period, these centres organized 213 need- based capacity building programmes, each of 21 days duration. About 3600 scientists/ faculty members of NARS participated and benefitted from such capacity building programmes. There was a felt need to improve the design, pattern and content of CAFT capacity building programmes in order to match the emerging demands of contemporary and future agricultural dynamics. Hence, a project was formulated by NAARM to assess the perception of CAFT participants and other stakeholders towards the effectiveness of CAFT programmes, to capture the training transfer by CAFT participants and the resultant transfer outcomes and suggest strategies to improve the design, pattern and content of CAFT programmes. It was sponsored by Agricultural Education Division of IACR, New Delhi. The study was conducted during June-September, 2012 using ex-post-facto research design.