 • Developed and demonstrated shrimp farming technology for the inland saline region with production levels of 5-6 tonnes/ha in 4 months culture period. The technology has been spread over a 2500 ha area in Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. • Developed genetically improved Indian catfish (magur) through selective breeding and demonstrated over 16% higher cumulative growth performance after 3rd generations. • Developed several aquaculture products including diagnostics, feeds, etc. and post-harvest value-added products. • 57 entrepreneurs have been incubated at the Agri-Business Incubator of the Institute since 2016. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Diploma course on entrepreneurship development at Kolkata Centre 179 Fisheries Science 179 • Certificate courses at Kakinada and Rohtak Centres. • Shrimp farming technology for Inland saline water. • Fish processing technologies and Ready-to-eat fish products. • Training & demonstration and consultancy on different aspects of fisheries and aquaculture. 180 ICAR Institutes Profile 180 ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources, Canal Ring Road, P.O. Dilkusha, Lucknow-226 002 (UP) ii. Name of the Director: Dr. Kuldeep Kumar Lal iii. Email address: director.nbfgr@icar.gov.in / Phone No.: 0522-2441735, 2440145 2. Mandate and activities The major activities of ICAR-NBFGR involve the collection, characterization, catalouging, and documentation of fish genetic resources of different aquatic ecosystems of the country and their conservation strategies. Further, the institute undertakes research and provides necessary policy guidelines for the introduction of exotics, quarantine for prevention of transboundary diseases, etc. Mandate • Exploration, characterization and catalouging of fish genetic resources. • Maintenance and preservation of fish genetic resources for conservation and utilization of prioritized species. • Evaluation of indigenous and exotic germplasm including risk assessment and fish health. 3. Salient achievements • Developed a database on fish diversity of India named Aquatic Genetic Information System of India (AqGRISI), which contains information on 3157 native finfish species. Further, developed six online databases - Fish Barcode Information System, Fish Karyome, Fish and Shellfish Microsatellite Database, Fish Mitogenome Resource, Hypoxia Responsive Gene in Fishes, and Abiotic responsive gene of fishes. • Characterized genetic stock structure in their natural distribution range for over 30 finfish and shellfish species. • Sperm cyro-banking for over 30 fish species for sustaining genetic diversity. The technology was up-scaled through field validation in 32 hatcheries in 10 states. • Discovered forty-six new fish species during explorations of ecologically diverse habitats in India during the last decade.