 But the claim gets vitiated under delayed monsoon conditions, because the season to sow sorghum + pigeon pea would be lost for the fear of sorghum shootfly attack, and the farmer will prefer to sow castor instead of sorghum + pigeon pea. Low price of the indigenous rain-gauge made of granite ranging from Rs. 250 to 300, which can be made by the local mason, and its less proneness to theft over the standard rain-gauge are the major advantages. 2.3 Method of rain-water management in mountainous land scape under apple orchard Description of the ITK In several parts of the Himalayas villages, villagers often harvest rain water by building small water- storage "ponds" (locally called chaal).The number of such ponds varies from 30 to 40 depending upon the valleys and villages. Each water pond is 9 m. long, 9 m. wide and 0.9 m deep. The water used as drinking water for cattle and for irrigation purposes. Name and address of the discloser Shri Prem Singh Verma, Gawahi village, Sandhu P.O., Theog tehsil, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 222. Location of use of the ITK Different villages in the foot-hills or valleys of the Himalayas were considered. The experimental site is an apple orchard, located at village Gawahi, which is 45 km from Shimla city on national highway 22 (commonly called Hindustan-Tibet Road) and 8 km from Theog town, which is a gateway to apple belt of Shimla district. The orchard is of about 3 ha area, at 2,400 m above MSL, which was established 10 years ago. Experimenters Dr. Pradeep K. Sharma, Chief Scientist (WM), Dr. O.C. Kapur, Senior Scientist (Soils), and Dr. S. S. Masand, Senior Scientist (Soils), Department of Soil Science, Ch. Sarwan Kumar Krishi Viswa Vidyalaya, Palampur (Himachal Pradesh) 176 062. Results and discussion This experiment was conducted during 2002- 2004. Two sets of treatments were imposed in this study. 1. For in-situ rain-water harvesting and profile moisture conservation, the following three sets of treatments, in addition to control, were tested: mulching, terracing + mulching, and terracing + trenching + mulching. 2. For testing chaal, five types of dug-out tanks were constructed at appropriate locations in the experimental area, viz. (i) polyethelene-lined tank, (ii) bitumen (tarcoal)-lined tank, (iii) cement+ concrete lined tank (RCC), (iv) mud- plastered tank, and (v) unlined tank (control). Indigenous rain-gauge (rolu) Measurement of rain water collected in rolu 5 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture The whole experimental site was divided into three blocks for imposing the following treatments: i) Terracing: Land shaping between two apple trees along the contours in such a way that rain water flows towards the tree basins, (ii) Trenching: Small trenches of appropriate sizes were dug above the tree basins to harvest rain water in situ. (iii) Mulching: The tree basins were mulched with FYM, pine-needles, pebbles and cocopit, in addition to unmulched control.