 94th Annual General Meeting of the ICAR, Annual Conference of Directors of National Institutes and Vice Chancellors of State Agricultural Universities and International Conference on Blended Learning and Ecosystem of higher Education in Agriculture, Annual conference of ICAR Regional Committee of Zone-V, Agricultural Exhibition at National Agriculture Science Centre Complex for G20 leaders’, spouses visit to Pusa, IARI and International research conference, From Research to Impact: Towards Just and Resilient Agri- food Systems hosted by the CGIAR GENDER Impact Platform and the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) held during the year were also provided support for information and communication management of event in Online mode. One of the important mandates of ICT unit is to create awareness about cyber security among the researchers, senior officers and other functionaries. All staff of ICAR across country were provided opportunity to be educated related to cyber security through number of online programmes coordinated by ICT unit and delivered by C-DAC Hyderabad. In this programme most of the ICAR staff from different institutes participated. This is continuous ongoing activity from ICT unit of ICAR- Headquarters. Also an exclusive interactive session- cum-training programme has been organized in Krishi Bhawan, ICAR on 23 May 2023 on the topic “Cyber Hygiene”. More than 70 officials of ICAR and DARE participated in the session. Resource person and cyber security expert from Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Center (I4C), Ministry of Home Affairs, GoI were invited for deliberations during the training. ICAR-Network Program on Precision Agriculture (NePPA): This programme is focused on exploring potential applications of recent developments on technologies related to sensors, IoTs, drone and ICTs, variable rate technologies (VRTs) for precision smart agriculture. The major objectives span its scope bringing precision in monitoring and managing soil fertility, crop health, livestock farming, post-harvest operations, aquaculture and upscaling in farmers’ field scale to enhance input use efficiency and optimal production system. Some of the accomplishments ready to roll out in the field are briefly given as: INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 165 Prediction of soil fertility using different hyperspectral sensors Drone based monitoring of crop condition Sensor based rapid assessment of soil fertility and digital soil mapping: Rapid sensor-based appraisal of soil health at field scale has been developed. Presently, soil health assessments are performed under laboratory conditions using wet chemistry with tedious and time- consuming sample preparation and analysis. This will accelerate the national soil health card programme by Government of India. Different hyperspectral sensors were used and evaluated for non-invasive rapid estimation of soil fertility attributes.