 So far, the ranking has been done for the last three years based on the information received from the universities in the prescribed proforma through hard copies. In view of the COVID19 pandemic situation, the required information is being obtained online from the universities. Accordingly, an Agricultural University Ranking System (AURS) was developed to enable the submission of the required data by the universities and the evaluation/verification by the Committee online. During 2020–21, first position was bagged by the NDRI, Karnal, followed by PAU, Ludhiana and IARI, New Delhi, for the second and third positions, respectively. Broad Subject Matter Area (BSMA) Committees: A National Core Group was constituted by ICAR for development of Academic Regulations for Masters and Ph.D. programmes, defining names and curricula of Masters’ and Ph.D. disciplines for uniformity and revision of syllabi for courses of Masters’ and Ph.D. degree disciplines. On the recommendations of the members of National Core Group, 19 Broad Subject Matter Area (BSMA) Committees were constituted for revising the syllabus. These committees conducted several meetings with the concerned experts and stakeholders and developed the syllabus for their respective subjects. While developing the syllabi, various provisions of National Education Policy-2020 were also considered and complied to provide quality higher education and to develop good, thoughtful, well-rounded, and creative individuals. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 110 ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 111 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT Necessary provisions have been made in the curricula to enable an individual to study major and minor specialized areas of interest at a deep level, and also develop intellectual curiosity, scientific temper and creativity. The revised curricula for 79 disciplines were designed to improve the existing syllabus and to make it more contextual and pertinent to cater the needs of students in terms of global competitiveness and employability. To mitigate the concerns related to agriculture education system in India and to ensure uniform system of education, several changes were incorporated in common academic regulations in relation to credit load requirement and its distribution, system of examination, internship during Masters programme, provision to enrol for online courses and take the advantage of e-resources through e-learning and teaching assistantship for Ph.D. scholars. Student READY: The program is offered to undergraduate students during the final year of the course. The programme helps to reorient graduates of agriculture and allied subjects to develop entrepreneurs in emerging areas. During the last one year 17,205 students were supported with stipend under RAWE program. During the year, Student READY monitoring system, including Experiential Learning was launched.