 KVKS should maintain separate logbook in respect of each machinery/equipment, including vehicles. ●Assets created from the grant-in-aid should be reflected in annual accounts of the host organizations. 7.2 Monitoring of expenditure Each KVK shall maintain the following records relating to financial transactions: ●KVK Main account – main cash book/subsidiary cash book ●Revolving fund account – cash book ●Assets Register ●Log books for vehicles and equipments 7. Financial Management 90 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK ●Acquittance register ●TA register ●Cheque book register ●Service book ●Pay-in slips ●Trainees’ attendance register. ●Hostel occupancy register ●Individual account for any other project/schemes ●Objection book (for drawing of advances and watching its settlement) ●Consumable and non-consumable register. ●Despatch register ●Visitors book Maintenance of cashbook All monetary transactions shall be brought in to the accounts of the KVK immediately. All departmental receipts, which have to be deposited to the bank and all payments, which have to be made by cheque, should be accounted in the main cash book, which should be maintained by the accountant. All the payments are to be made by crossed cheque/DD/online transfer. The officer –in charge/Chief Scientist-cum-Head should initial each entry in the cash book before closing the cash book. Each entry has to be verified with the counter folio of the cheque book and pay-in slip and has to be initialed. The balance at the end of the month shall be struck and the grand total on each side of the cash book to be agreed. The cashbook should be closed monthly and signed by the competent authority. There should not be any overwriting in the cashbook. Format of main cashbook is given in Appendix XX. Voucher: Every payment is to be made on a document called Voucher, which gives the amount, nature and all details necessary for its identification and receipt of acknowledgement or acquittanced by the person from whom it is due. It is the duty of the accountant to see that for every payment there is a voucher in proper form (GAR 29 – FVC Bill) (Appendix XXIX), properly drawn up and arithmetically correct duly certified with necessary stock entry details etc., Maintenance of subsidiary cashbook A record of all cash transactions is kept in the subsidiary cashbook. All receipts and payments by cash should be entered in the subsidiary cashbook. All cash should be kept in a strong iron safe with lock and key. It is necessary that cash balance should be physically checked and verified by the competent authority as frequently as possible and certificate to that effect should be recorded in the subsidiary cash book. Every month a Bank Reconciliation Statement shall be prepared to reconcile the discrepancies between the balance as per bank statement and cashbook. 91 Financial Management 7.2.