 The effects of nanoZnO (nZnO) on the compositional and functional responses of bacterial communities in soils were examined using high throughput sequencing. Microbial consortia for enhancing the growth and yield of cumin and coriander was identified. Organic nutrient management practices for Sarpagandha were developed. New insect-pests in banana (Fall armyworm, Spodoptera frugiperda; Bondar’s nesting whitefly, Paraleyrodes bondari and bagworm, Manatha albipes) were identified. Litchi stink bug (Tessaratoma javanica) and the Flower webber were recorded as emerging insect pest attaining major pest status of litchi. An algorithm based on object detection approach was developed for surveillance of rhinoceros beetle infestation using unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV or drone). An entomopathogenic fungus isolated from infected H. theivora was identified as M. anisopliae TMBMA1 and found effective in mirid management in cocoa. Competitive regulation and biological control of rugose spiralling whitefly by the Bondar’s nesting whitefly (BNW) during 2021 was observed. Incidence of Fusarium wilt disease, tropical race 4 (Foc TR4) in banana in West Bengal was identified. Citrus microbiome was utilized in rejuvenating Khasi Mandarin plants affected by important citrus diseases. Etiology of emerging diseases in plantation crops was established. A rapid and novel mycelium inoculation technique for inducing Ganoderma lucidum infection in coconut and arecanut seedlings was developed. A native plant growth promoting isolate of Trichoderma asperellum (isolate AT172) having antagonistic activity against arecanut basal stem rot pathogen G. lucidum was identified and characterized. The cashew leaf blight disease caused by Neopestalotiopsis clavispora was identified for the first time in cashew. RPA-lateral flow assay (RPA-LFA) method was standardized for the on-site detection of the piper yellow mottle virus infecting black pepper. Singleplex and duplex recombinase polymerase amplification (RPA) assays were optimized for specific and sensitive detection of Pythium spp. and Ralstonia pseudosolanacearum from ginger rhizomes. Marker free late blight resistant transgenic line KJ66 was identified. Prototype of a remote operated unmanned ground (UGV) vehicle was designed and developed for spraying of agrochemicals on potato crop. Sodium alginate-based bead formulation of fungal mycelia and conidia for long term storage of fungal cultures were developed. Livestock Management: Thirteen healthy buffalo calves (seven males and six females) were produced from semen of two cloned bulls. This technology will lead to future sustainable milk production in the country. Prototype of intra-vaginal wireless sensor device was developed for remote monitoring of calving process in dairy cows. This could help in predicting the calving time in cattle.