  Supervisor sanctions refer to the extent to which individual members of the organization perceive negative responses from the supervisors or managers while applying skills learnt in training.  Task constraints are the perceived stumbling blocks at work place that hinder training transfer.  Performance coaching is the formal and informal indications/ instructions from an organization (peer group, supervisors and managers) about an individual‟s job performance after training. Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 19  Resistance to change refers to the perceived extent to which prevailing group/ organizational norms resist or discourage the use of KSAs acquired in training at work place.  Job autonomy is the degree to which job provides required level of freedom, independence and discretion to the employee in scheduling his or her work and in determining the procedures to be used in carrying out the work. Domain: III: Training design and delivery Before training  Training need analysis is the initial step and the prime attribute of training design, from the training transfer point of view. It is a method to ensure that the proposed training intervention is the most appropriate solution to a problem.  Making sure that the training content reflects the task of the intervention and task represents the organizational needs‟ is content validity/ relevance. It is one of the significant attributes of training design. During training  Active learning is referred to making trainees be involved in capacity building interventions by careful designing of capacity building interventions.  Varied practice is learning new knowledge and skills under a variety of methods and real-field cases during training.  Technological tools refer to the use of modern tools and gadgets in capacity building in a carefully planned manner to improve the training efficiency. After training  Evaluation of training is the use of pre-determined specific framework tuned to the organizational expectations, for appraising outcomes of interventions administered during training. Domain: IV: Transfer outcomes  Transfer outcomes refer to improvement in knowledge, skills and attitude about the theme of the capacity building and resultant training-induced improvement in job Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 20 performance of the participants, peer group and as a result improvement in the organizational performance Data analysis The collected data were tabulated and analyzed using descriptive statistics especially percentage analysis, rank-based quotient (RBQ) analysis, mean and correlation etc. to arrive at meaningful conclusions and recommendable implications.