 Presently available method of fumigation by aluminium phosphide was practised and found feasible for the insect control. Internal makhana feeding Lesser grain borer (adult and grub) Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 Indian Horticulture 22 F RUITS are universally promoted healthy as it serves as a primary source of dietary essentials. India’s diverse climate favours the cultivation of variety of fruit crops. India is the second largest producer of fruits in the world, after China with a production of 108.34 million metric tonnes during 2022-23. However, productivity of fruit crops during the last one decade has been witnessing a declining trend from 17.6 Mt/ha (2012-2013) to 15.45 Mt/ha (2022-2023) thus resulting in a decrease of almost 12.22% which is thought provoking (MoA&FW 2023). This could be attributed to the several factors such as rapid urbanization resulting in smaller land holdings, indiscriminate use of irrigation water and subsequent soil related problems, abiotic stress such as drought, salinity, thermal stress, recurrent frost, flood and particularly the non-availability of quality and disease- free planting material. Supply of clean planting material still continues to be one of the major challenges in fruit crops like citrus, grape, pomegranate, apple etc. Even though an array of rootstocks are available for diverse agro-ecological conditions (biotic and abiotic stresses), canopy architecture including dwarfing rootstock for high density orcharding (HDO), most of the fruit crops even today are propagated on rootstocks of an unknown origin. Thus, the government recent initiative on production and supply of clean planting material program in fruit crops like almond, apple, avocado, berries, citrus, grapes, guava, litchi, mango, pomegranate, walnut etc. with a budget outlay of `2,200 crores for the next seven years is a welcome step for the nursery industry, unemployed youth and entrepreneurs. Since most of the fruit crops are commercially propagated by vegetative means such as grafting, budding, layering, cuttings etc., there are immense possibilities for the propagated material being infected by microbial endophytes (fungus, bacteria, virus and phytoplasma) depending on the source of the mother plant. Pomegranate is a classic example where devastating disease like bacterial blight has spread through contaminated planting material and has now become a national problem and difficult to eradicate. Similarly, Citrus greening (HLB leaf yellowing) and guava wilt are the serious threat to these fruit crops. Although technologies such as thermotherapy and nucellar seedlings find solutions to some of the above-mentioned problems, tissue culture is the only technique which can go a long Tissue culture based clean planting material: A niche and profitable venture The availability of quality and true-to-type planting material is prerequisite for any orchard establishment.