 Such practices might lead to skewed benefits for manu­ facturers, while deepening vulnerabilities among farmers, especially given climate uncertainty and the gender gap in access to resources. In the Indian context, the GoI broadly defines CSA as “a range of agricultural practices that transform agricultural systems to support food security in the face of climate change” (Chauhan and Ram, 2022). It acknowledges CSA as an umbrella concept that includes “all environ­ ment friendly agricultural approaches like integrated farming systems, conservation agriculture, natural farming, organic farming, precision agriculture, regenerative agriculture, reclamation of degraded soils and reduced food loss and waste to achieve sustainable agriculture” (Min­ istry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, 2023). This is largely consistent with the FAO and World Bank definition: an approach that seeks to integrate climate change adaptation into the planning and implementation of sustainable agricultural practices while reducing GHG emissions from agriculture. Moreover, the GoI’s strategy empha­ sizes the importance of crop- and region-specific strategies, considering India’s wide diversity of social, economic, and environmental contexts. The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare (2023) further clarifies that the priorities for the G204 agriculture working group are based on the concept of CSA (rather than natural or organic farming) to align with the global community. Table 1 describes some of the more commonly recommended CSA practices that farmers in India can adopt to cope with climate change (Shah, 2018; Aryal et al., 2014; Shrivastava, 2016; FAO, 2011). 3.1. Policy context and formulation of CSA policies in India Recognizing the risks associated with climate change, India’s central and state governments have integrated climate change concerns into policies through several missions and programs across sectors. As agri­ culture is a state subject in India, agriculture-related policies and ini­ tiatives are implemented by state governments. However, certain subjects come under the “Central list,” so while some agriculture pro­ grams and policies are funded entirely from state budgets, some are fully or partially funded by the central government. State policies are largely formulated in accordance with the national agenda. Therefore, to un­ derstand the policy context with respect to CSA policies, it is imperative to look at both central and state-level initiatives. At the national level, a significant step toward reducing climate change impacts and vulnerabilities has been the formulation of the National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC) in 2008. The National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) is one of the eight core national missions under the NAPCC that focuses on achieving the “triple- wins” envisioned under CSA. It aims to reduce agricultural emissions while enhancing agricultural productivity and food security.