 Private Sector Initiatives Contract farming The Government of India’s National Agriculture Policy envisages that private sector participation will be promoted through contract farming and land leasing arrangements to allow accelerated technology transfer, capital inflow and assured market for crop production, especially for oilseeds, cotton and horticultural crops. There are several initiatives under this scheme. Over here we mention two of them. Hindustan Lever Ltd (HLL), Rallis and ICICI formed an alliance with the farmers. Under this alliance, Rallis supplies agri-inputs and know-how, and ICICI finances (farm credit) the farmers. HLL, the processing company, which requires the farm produce as raw material for its food processing industry, provides the buy- back arrangement for the farm output. In this arrangement, farmers benefit through the assured market for their produce in addition to timely, adequate and quality input supply including free technical know-how; HLL benefits through supply- chain efficiency; while Rallis and ICICI benefit through assured clientele for their products and services. Launching its agro-business in India with special focus on export of value-added processed foods, Pepsi Foods Ltd. (PepsiCo hereafter) entered India in 1989 by installing ₹ 22 Crore state-of-the- art tomato processing plant at Zahura in Hoshiarpur dis- trict of Punjab. The PepsiCo model of contract farming, measured in terms of new options for farmers, productivity increases, and the introduction of modern technology, has been an unparalleled success. The company focused on developing region and desired produce-specific research, and extensive extension services. It was thus www.theinternationaljournal.org > RJSSM: Volume: 04, Number: 07, November 2014  successful in bringing about a drastic change in Punjab farmers production system towards its objective of ensuring supply of right produce at the right time in required quantities to its processing plant [contract farming ventures 2003] Findings Through the review it is found that, the agricultural marketing sector is characterized by fragmented supply chain, huge postharvest losses, multiple market intermediaries; higher transaction cost, lack of awareness and several other socio-economic factors are some of the acute problems being faced by the Indian agriculture. As the government initiation is in understanding the importance of farmers, Agri produce, measures to control the wastage of agri food products, arranging facility to store the produce, establish channels and market to reach the ultimate consumer by efficient utilization of supply chain strategies are acting as back bone to agriculture sector. Conclusion From the review of literature it can be concluded that, strengthening the following aspects develops a better model of agriculture supply chain management which helps in solving the food problem of the country indeed the world.  Information is crucial to efficient agricultural markets.