2: Enhancing the ICAR share of postgraduate support to SAUs by way of fee reimbursement, fellowship amount and more seats through ICAR entrance Examination Fee structure in AUs varies from state to state and even from one AU/ deemed university (DU) to another AU/DU within a state. ADG (EQR) informed that in a meeting taken by Hon’ble Minister of State for Agriculture, the need for bringing uniformity in this regard was discussed. Also, the enhancement of percentage of students admitted through ICAR’s Central Entrance Test for UG and PG programmes has been desired to be considered. After due deliberations, it was proposed to enhance the all India 19 quota from the existing 15 and 25% to 25 and 35% respectively for UG and PG admissions. The uniformity in fee structure should also be brought out. [Action: All VCs/ADG (HRD) ] Agenda 9.3: Best Teacher Award Scheme implementation ADG (EQR) informed that the ICAR scheme of Best Teacher Award is in vogue in many AUs for rewarding the performance wherein the award money is paid by the ICAR. Those AUs which are yet to utilize the provision of this scheme, should adopt it to provide incentive to the performers. It was suggested that certain provisions in the guidelines need to be revised to make it easier to follow. [Action: ADG(EPD)] Agenda 9.4: University Textbook writing ADG (EPD) presented the agenda. The diversity of our country in terms of language and agro-ecology offers enormous scope for the creation of textbooks for undergraduates in regional languages in various subjects. Alternate and effective models of recognition and reward of this scheme were proposed. [Action: ADG (HRD)/ADG(EPD)] Agenda 9.5: Emeritus Scientist Scheme ADG (EPD) presented the agenda. The proceedings of the first-ever review meeting held under the chairmanship of Dr S. Ayyappan, former DDG (Fy) and the revised guidelines effective from 1st Jan 2010 were circulated as a part of Agenda Notes. The salient points from these documents were highlighted. Extension of this scheme to 3 years as earlier, was proposed to be taken up by the Council. [Action: ADG (HRD)/ADG(EPD)] Agenda 9.6: Post-doctoral Fellowship ADG(HRD) presented the agenda. The Post Doctoral Fellowships 20 Schemes such as TWAS-CSIR, DST, DBT, UGC, RA were presented and compared. Existing provision for Research Associate (RA) working in ICAR funded scheme was also presented and compared. It was decided that Post-doctoral fellowship in ICAR be introduced keeping harmony with other similarly operated schemes in the country especially TWAS-CSIR fellowship. [Action: ADG (HRD)/ADG(EPD)] Agenda 9.7: To discourage in-breeding at SAUs RAU, Pusa presented the agenda. There is a need to discourage in- breeding at various SAUs for maintaining higher standards of teaching and research. Students should not be allowed to take either more than one or two consecutive degrees from the same university.