 All these mechanisms are hydraulically operated and can be mounted on a tractor three-point links. The de-topper unit is attached to left of the harvester main frame on a vertical supporting post, ahead of the base cutter to cut the top of the sugarcane leaf before base cutter cuts the stalk. The vertical supporting post is equipped with a telescopic arrangement to adjust the height of the de-topping unit as per the head height of the sugarcane crop. The height adjustment is carried out with the help of a hydraulic cylinder. A crop gathering unit is provided to separate and bend the sugarcane for gathering in a row; it is placed in front of the de-topper and base cutter unit. Cane walker unit is mounted on the harvester main frame above the base cutter, which is supported by the pneumatic tyre. It is provided for conveying the cut cane and guiding into the collection trolley. The tractor-operated whole cane harvester was field tested at Research farm of M/s Bannari Amman Sugars Ltd. and M/s Sakthi Sugars Ltd., Tamil Nadu. The average field capacity of the unit is 0.11 ha/h and field efficiency of the unit is 0.70%. The equipment saves 71% in cost when compared to manual harvesting. Small tractor- operated raised bed former-cum-onion bulb planter: The developed planter consists of the main frame, raised bed former, seed metering mechanism, seed hopper, ground wheel, furrow opener and standard three-point hitch. The raised bed former was able to form one raised bed and plant onion bulb in four rows on each raised bed. The ground wheel extended the drive to the seed metering device by a chain and sprocket mechanism. A shoe type furrow opener was fitted to the planting frame in front of seed onion delivery tube. The planter can be used for making one bed (bed top width as 70 cm) and planting in four rows. The actual field capacity was recorded as 0.13 ha/h with a field efficiency of 73%. The equipment saves 7% of cost as compared to manual planting. Power tiller-operated maize harvester: A power tiller-operated maize harvester has been developed for small and marginal farmers. It consists of snapping rollers which rotate in ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 107 MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT opposite direction, cutting blades, basket for collecting cobs, transporting wheels for movement, gears and pulleys for providing drive to snapping rollers and blade shaft. The harvester has been operated at a forward speed of 1.00 km/h. The effective field capacity, fuel consumption, and snapping efficiency of the harvester are 0.05 ha/h, 0.9 L/h and 83%, respectively. Multirow rotary weeder and sprayer attachment to ride on rice transplanter: A multi row weeder-cum- sprayer was developed as an attachment to the Yanmar Ride on Type transplanter to increase the utility of rice transplanter, reduce the labour requirement and drudgery in weeding and spraying operations. The field capacity of the weeder-cum-sprayer was 4.6-5.8 ha/day.