 Without working out the numbers and prioritizing research engagement especially 2 in cutting edge areas like nano technology, biotechnology and instrumentation in agriculture, historic momentum in agriculture cannot be fully sustained. He also emphasized on strengthening international cooperation, and private sector participation in the field of agricultural research. Prior to them, Dr Arvind Kumar, Deputy Director General (Education), ICAR in his welcome speech remarked that this meeting was historical as for the first time, a joint meeting of VCs of AUs, Directors of ICAR Institutes, Zonal Project Coordinators, Project Coordinators of AICRPs is being organized. Dr R.B. Lal, President, Indian Agricultural Universities Association (IAUA) appreciated the efforts of ICAR for its scientific, technical and financial support to the AUs. He also welcomed the decision of ICAR for providing centenary grant to century old historical colleges. He assured the support of IAUA in facilitating better co-ordination in enhancing quality assurance in higher agricultural education in the country. Dr S. Ayyappan, Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR expressed gratitude to the Union Minister of Agriculture, Shri Sharad Pawar Ji and Minister of State for Agriculture, Prof. K.V. Thomas ji for constant guidance, vision and supervision in the mission of science-related farming and technology-related processes of National Agricultural Research System (NARS). He outlined the roadmap of agricultural research, education and extension wherein components of capacity building, niche areas of excellence, international co-operation and collaboration could function in synergy and complementarily mode. He highlighted the role of quality education, green curriculum and development of knowledge and skills and hoped that the brand A-school in agriculture just as B-schools in business would become popular and agriculture profession would be acceptable and respectable. Shri Rajiv Mehrishi, Additional Secretary, DARE and Secretary, ICAR proposed the vote of thanks. Interactive Agenda: Synergy and Complementarities of ICAR-AU The interactive session was chaired by Dr K. Kasturirangan Member, Planning Commission and Sh. L. Rynjah, Principal Advisor, Planning Commission was the guest of honour. Dr S. Ayyappan, welcoming the Chief Guest and delegates, expressed gratitude to the Chief Guest for having the benefit of his vast experience in upstream research management and administration in addressing the concerns of agricultural research, education and extension. He briefed the post-independent accomplishments of 3 agriculture and emphasized the need for enhanced State as well as central funding and manpower support to SAUs for strengthening their capacity and capabilities for quality research, technological backstopping and human resource development.