 The answers to questions can be generated and if they are found satisfactory, then one can send it to the group. Many farmers are using this feature for sending answers to the queries asked in the group. All these AI assistants synthesize the required information from the internet and various information repositories. Each AI assistant may give different answers to the same question or sometimes give wrong/inadequate answers. This could be due to the method of training these assistants. Now-a-days, they are trained using Large Language Models. The accuracy of the answer depends on the model deployed and the quality of the information used in the training. However, these AI apps continuously learn and correct themselves based on the feedback given by the user. In the next five years, we are sure to witness much more accurate AI assistants. SUMMARY There are 23 horticultural institutes under ICAR, which are working on various crops. They have been generating diverse and valuable information on different crops since many years and decades. This huge database and expertise available in these institutes can be profitably deployed for development of AI assistants capable of providing accurate information on a specific crop and development of AI apps for proper diagnosis of specific pests, diseases and nutrient deficiencies of different crops. This will immensely help the stakeholders associated with each crop and the institute. Hence, institutes can come forward for development of such apps and need to contribute images, data, text and expertise. The work can be taken up by either individual institutes or at the ICAR- IASRI depending on the availability of expertise and financial resources. For further interaction, please write to: Dr G. S. Mohana (Principal Scientist), ICAR-Directorate of Cashew Research, Puttur, Karnataka 574 202. *Corresponding author: mohangs2007@gmail.com AI assistants Cashew Protect November–December 2024 73 AI transforming horticulture: A glimpse into the future The horticulture industry has witnessed transformative advancements, especially with the integration of artificial intelligence (AI), which is reshaping farming practices through data-driven precision agriculture. AI enables the collection and analysis of vast data volumes related to soil conditions, climate, and pest patterns, facilitating real-time, optimized decision-making for farmers. This approach enhances efficiency by tailoring pest control, fertilization, and irrigation schedules, which improves productivity, reduces resource waste, and increases sustainability. Key applications of AI in horticulture include niche modeling for crop diversification, variety selection based on regional adaptability, and the extension of crop cycles to previously unsuitable regions. Furthermore, AI aids in addressing climate change by projecting region-specific crop viability, thus allowing farmers to adapt proactively.