 The runoff water from the fields can be collected by constructing small ponds either in the field or away from the field. This water can be utilized for irrigation purposes during the period of water scarcity or stress. Runoff water can also be utilized in another way by modifying the traditional system of basin making to new and advanced system of basin like cup and saucer basin, crescent bunding, full and half-moon system of basin etc. Besides these, organic mulches such as grass mulch, polythene mulches and nylon mulch mat provides a good medium for in situ moisture conservation to enhance fruit productivity. All these water conservation strategies will bring sustainability in fruit production and will increase the fruit productivity in rain-fed areas of Himachal Pradesh. Methods of moisture conservation Contour farming (Terracing): Contour farming, refers to the Contour farming Source: https://contourlines.org/research/ Indian Farming 12 May 2023 practice of tilling sloped land along lines of consistent elevation in order to conserve rainwater and to reduce soil losses from surface erosion. The objective of contour farming is to catch and retain water which can be achieved by making furrows, crop rows, and wheel tracks across slopes. Thus it will increase infiltration and more uniform distribution of water. Mulching: Mulch (Organic and Inorganic) is a natural or artificially applied layer of plant residues or other material on the soil with the objective of: • Moisture conservation • Temperature control • Weed control • Prevention of surface compaction or crust formation • Reduction of surface runoff and soil erosion • Increment in soil fauna • Improvement in soil structure • Reduction of certain insect pests • More efficient use of soil nutrients • It allows the absorption of more rain water and reduces irrigation frequency Organic mulching Organic mulches are those tend to decay after a particular interval of time and are temporary in nature. These natural mulches improve soil quality and contain high amounts of nutrients. These living mulches are considered more environmentally friendly than plastics and add nitrogen to the primary crop. Commonly available organic mulches include (Table 1): Grass mulch: it is the most common type of mulch that is being used by the farmers of Himachal Pradesh. The grass which is grown between the rows of trees in orchard dried under sun. After that it is used as mulch in fruit tree basins. It is biodegradable in nature and neutral in pH. It has good moisture retention and weed controlling properties. Pine needle mulch: Pine needle mulch is also an excellent source of mulch in fruit crops. It will act as excellent winter mulch for strawberries. Its decomposition rate is low so it is advisable to add organic matter to soil before mulching. Pine needle mulches are slightly acidic in nature suppresses weeds; lightweight; free of weed seeds; does not pack down; reusable.