 For the first time, a fungal bioagent, Paecilomyces lilacinus has also been granted regular registration in 2018. 5. Weed research Among various biotic factors that limit production, weeds cause highest yield loss of 33% (DWR 2015). In India, total economic losses due to weeds in 10 major field crops in 18 states are ~US$ 11 billion annually (Gharde et al. 2018). Very high economic losses were estimated in rice (US$ 4420 million), wheat (US$ 3376 million) and soybean (US$ 1559 million). Weeds compete with crops for inputs/resources, decrease quantity and quality of produce and cause health hazards for humans and animals. Hence, managing weeds is pre- requisite for attaining higher crop productivity, profitability and improved resources/input use efficiency. Amongst the various methods of weed management, herbicide is proven easier to apply, most efficient and cost-effective tool. The milestones and impacts in weed research and management technologies during the last 75 years of Independence of India are presented in following section. 5.1. Weed survey and ecology research Research on weed survey/distribution across crops/cropping systems and biology and ecology have been recurrent one that continues over times. There were focusses on ecology and life cycle of predominant weeds to determine the weakest phase in the life cycle when weeds could be easily controlled. Estimation of yield losses due to weeds; determining critical period of weed competition in major crops as early as 1964-1969, a PL 480 research project with USAID was undertaken on the ecology of ten common noxious weeds that included Chenopodium album, Cyperus rotundus, Eichhornia crassipes, Anagallis arvensis, Spirodela polyrrhiza, Portulaca oleracea, Cassia tora, Eleusine indica, Amaranthus spinosus and Eleocharis palustris. During 1990s, studies also embraced upon physiology/ biology and ecology of some important perennial/ annual weeds, namely, Eupatorium adenophorum/ riparium/ odoratum, Cyperus rotundus, Oxalis latifolia, Echinochloa colona/ glabrescens and weed seed bank dynamics in rice-wheat cropping system and comparative eco-physiology of Phalaris minor and Avena ludoviciana Dur. and wheat. The ecology of problematic weeds, Parthenium hysterophorus was assessed and its chemical and biological control measures was developed. Parthenium Awareness Week (PAW) was initiated in 2005 and is being organized every year thereafter. A Weed Atlas for major weeds in major crops in 435 districts spread across 19 states of the country was published (Dixit et al. 2008). 826 weed species were reported to cause yield losses in India of which 80 and 198 were Indian Agriculture after Independence 224 considered very serious and serious weeds, respectively. Economic threshold level (ETL) of Trianthema portulacastrum L. (Hazra et al. 2011) and Cyperus rotundus L. (Das et al. 2014) in soybean, and Chenopodium album L. (Dodamani and Das 2013), Phalaris minor Retz. (Raj et al.