 The drive for “Atmanirbhar Bharat” emphasizes upon local production and global presence of local brands. The innovative initiatives of Kisan Rail and Krishi Udaan launched by the Ministry of Civil Aviation will provide impetus to India’s march towards self- reliance. One-Product One-District for better marketing and export in the Horticulture sector, while the Village Storage Scheme to be run by the SHGs will provide farmers a good holding capacity and reduce their logistics cost. Collectivization has been effective in linking farmers to markets. Gandhiji too had emphasized upon cooperatives of farmers for safeguards against exploitation by the corporate. Of late, Farmer Producer Organization (FPO) has emerged as an effective institutional mechanism for promotion of agribusiness, where forward and backward linkage is strengthened through increased bargaining power and economies of scale. The farmers can become the owners of their farmers producers company where they can invest through shareholding and lend money from bank to expand their agri-enterprise. This can empower farmer producers to achieve higher share from consumers’ rupee through direct marketing, while removing the middlemen or traders’ higher share. The digital marketing platform e-NAM by Govt. of India (2016) also facilitated the Farmer Producer Companies to sell their produce to the buyers at a price where both producers and consumers get surplus through win-win situation. This can be a check to the irregularities by middlemen and traders and in Mandi system. Gandhiji’s vision of unity of villagers making committee is achieved through FPOs like organization in current situation. 7. Path Ahead a) Promotion of decentralized innovation hubs: Gandhiji believed in decentralized and bottom up planning and development process. Often the top-down approach in innovation generation and transfer has failed to meet the needs and aspiration of the people and thus the intended benefits have been overshadowed with losses in terms of ecological 192 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR degradation. Besides socio-economic considerations, emphasis upon forging communion with nature holds the key to realize the Gandhian dream of sustainable as well as inclusive development. This entails devising such strategies for development and dissemination of innovations which could ensure economic viability; social equality, and ecological compatibility in order to generate appropriate and effective solutions to the emerging challenges in agriculture and farmers’ welfare. Therefore, besides collaborations of public-public and public-private institutions, emphasis must also be laid upon informal innovations systems (farmers’ innovations). Promotion of decentralized innovation hubs will strengthen participatory process, where the innovative farmers and youth could contribute in mainstream research for generation of cost-effective and location specific technologies.