 Take care that only Piglets of more than or exactly two months age (weight 8 kg) should be purchased. Male and female animal should be bought from different places. If this is not possible, at least buy piglets from different sows. Check the teats before purchasing they should be in rows and the number of teats should be more than or equal to six pairs. February De-worm the passel (group of pigs). Near to calving clean the calving pen and spread straw/bedding material. Bathe the pregnant sow with potassium permanagnate ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 41 water and isolate them in the calving pen about 10 days before calving. After calving, wipe clean the piglets with a clean cloth and assist them to suckle the colostrum. Install a light bulb about two feet high to keep children warm. Cut the needle teeth within two days before birth and giveiron supplementation on the third and thirteenth day to deal with anaemia. Start giving solid food in the second week. March Wean the piglets 45-60 days after calving and start giving a solid diet with 20-22% raw protein. Sell male children who are sold by 15 days of age Poultry farming October Assess the cleanliness and biosecurity of the entire farm. Restrict workers/ visitors entering the shed unnecessarily. November Continue the work for the month of October Take measures to maintain the temperature and humidity inside the shed according to the changing weather. Check electrical appliances, light blowers, etc. inside the shed. December Continue with the chores of the month of October-November. Keep the chicks under the brooder. Use plastic curtains, heaters, or heaters to keep the temperature constant in the shed. Include appropriate medicine/coccidiostats in the diet to prevent coccidiosis/ bloody diarrhea. Add partially dried berseem to the diet of poultry birds. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 42 Remove curtains during the day so that adequate sunlight can enter the shed. January Double the curtains in the shed when it is very cold. The temperature inside the shed should not go below 16 degree C. Increase the amount of energy (grains) in the diet by 15 to 18%. Include appropriate medicine/coccidiostats in the diet to prevent coccidiosis/ bloody diarrohea. February Continue with any pending chores from the month of January. Collect all kinds of records in one place to keep track of the year. Keep new workers on the farm after training. March Get one day old chicks vaccinated against Marek’s disease, in the first week againstRanikhet disease, in the second week against Gumboro disease and in the fourth week to prevent Ranikhet disease. Lower the temperature by about 3 to 5 degrees C each week to keep the temperature at 21 degree C for 6 weeks. Provide 24-hour light. Fish Farming October Make the following arrangements while continuing the July- August-September work. Start selling fish heavier than 500 grams.