 v) policy issues relating to the Institute, including the rights and obligations of staff, vi) consideration of action taken on the recommen- dations of the Grievance Cell and Institute Joint Council, 24 vii) any other items, as may be desired by the Direc- tor or other members of the Committee or as may be required to be considered as per deleg- ation of powers as directions of the Governing Body whether contained in any manual, orders issued, resolution passed, or other instructions approved by the Governing Body, and viii) such powers as may be delegated by the Govern- ing Body to enable the Management Commit- tees to administer the funds allocated and the programmes approved. Notice of meetings 68. All meetings of the Management Committee shall be called by notice in writing by and under the hand of the Member-Secretary of the Committee. Quorum 69. Four members of the Management Committee shall constitute the quorum. Frequency of meetings *70. The Management Committee Meeting may be held 2-3 times in a year depending upon the actual need of the Institute. However, rule 42, 43(ii) and 44 shall con- tinue to apply mutatis mutandis. Action on proceedings 71. (i) the proceedings of the Management Committee shall be forwarded to the Director-General im- mediately and Directors should ensure that the proceedings should be delivered to the Secretary, ICAR, within a week of the meeting. (ii) the Director-General shall have the power to review/cause to be reviewed any decision of the Management Committee where he considers the same is not in consonance with the Rules, general policy, practice or the priorities of the Council provided that any order on the basis of the basis of such review shall be passed within a period of one month w.e.f. the date of receipt of the proceedings at the Headquarter. If the proceedings of the Management Committee are not received at the Headquarter these may be reviewed by the Director-General any time suo moto. (in) in case the Director of the Institute has reasons to differ from the views of the Management Com- mittee, having regard to his accountability as the Head of the Institute, he should after re- cording the reasons in writing forward the same with the proceedings of the meeting of the Man- agement Committee to the Director-General for his decision till such time a final decision on such matters is taken by the Director-General • Substituted by the ICAR Society at its 68th Annual General Meeting held on 15th March, 1997 and approval accorded by the Government of India, Deptt. of Agricultural Research and Edu- cation, vide letter No. 6(10)/93-CSC dated 23.5.1997. 25 communicated to the Director, the recom- mendations of the Management Committee shall not be operative or acted upon. RESEARCH ADVISORY COMMITTEE "Constitution 71A (a) Each Institute of the Council excluding National Research Centre shall have a research Advisory Committee consisting of the following members:- 1.