 Youth can be retained in agriculture only when required knowledge and education, technical skills, sustained encouragement and enabling policy environments are provided. In addition, the required policies, incentives, and rewards need to be put in place to attract young talents to undertake innovative farming that is not only profitable and sustainable but also respectable. This will inspire as well as attract the youth to adopt agriculture as a profession for their happy living. Such an approach should be a strategic priority at the local, state and country level to ensure youth-led inclusive OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 19 growth in agriculture. Thus, the new strategy should be to reorient present-day agriculture from crop based to farming system based with emphasis on 'plough-to- plate' approach, which is more relevant, efficient, demand- driven, productive, competitive and profitable. It must also ensure food, nutrition and environmental security for all. The ICAR, in collaboration with all relevant stakeholders in the recent past, has undertaken some important reforms in AE in India. Quality assurance in higher agricultural education has been introduced through accreditation system, framing of minimum standards for higher education, academic regulations, personnel policies, review of course curricula and delivery systems, support for creating/ strengthening infrastructure and facilities, improvement of faculty competence and admission of students through All India Examination. The ICAR’s Fifth Deans’ Committee Report restructured the course curricula to underpin relevant practical skills, entrepreneurial aptitude, self-employment, leadership Higher Education Project (NAHEP), built on the preceding World Bank projects, particularly NATP and NAIP, is strengthening capacities of faculty and students, foster linkages of the national system with global knowledge economy, facilitating international experiential learning, promoting learning-centred education and fortifying agriculture with private industries. Notwithstanding the above initiatives, there is still good scope for further improvement in the AE ecosystem for motivating and attracting youth (MAYA) in agriculture through greater attention on technical and policy aspects as follows: Technical aspects yy As articulated in the NEP 2020, agricultural education must maintain such standards to ensure that agricultural graduates from India are professionally well equipped to handle national as well as international challenges. yy The NAREES should assess the manpower needs of the fast transforming, knowledge- intensive agriculture to make necessary adjustments in curricula and skill development, emphasizing on experiential learning and exposure to national and international issues.