 The near absence of contribution from manufacturing (1.69%), banking and insurance (2.17%) reflects the lack of industrial activity in Nagaland and the weak supporting environment. The Naga hills are a part of the complex mountain range name the Arakan Mountain Range which falls on both in India and the Burmese sides. Mount Saramati is the highest peak of Nagaland, with an altitude of 12,552 feet. There are a number of rivers which originate and flow through the state. Rivers like the Barak in the southwest, the Doyang and Diphu towards the north and the Chindwin river of Burma in the Southeast flows through the state. Around 20% of the total land area of Nagaland is covered in wooded forest. Nearly 70% of the cultivable area in the state is located in the hills at an elevation range upto 2500 m. The traditional form of shifting cultivation i.e. Jhum, is widely practised across Nagaland. Rice is the dominant crop and also the staple food of the people. It occupies about 61% of the total area under food grains cultivation and constitutes about 71% of the total food grain production in the state. Kharif is the main season of the state. Ninety percent of cereals and commercial crops are produced during this season. The yield gaps are associated with many factors such as quality of seeds and irrigated area under crop. Yield gaps can be addressed by expanding irrigation, use of improved seeds in sowing and better credit access. 20 Nagaland 390 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 20.1 Major constraints: Š Š Lack of skill/ knowledge on improved farming practices Š Š Fragmented land holding Š Š Non-availability of quality seeds and planting materials Š Š Inadequate irrigation facilities and storage facilities Š Š Reluctant in adopting improved technology Which may be further hindered by Š Š Poor credit mechanism Š Š Poor agro-based industries Š Š Lack of proper post-harvest technology Š Š Lack of proper marketing channel Š Š Lack of proper storage facilities Š Š Improper soil and water conservation practices Š Š Hilly terrain and poor road infrastructures. Besides cereals, horticultural crops, there are significant gaps in milk production and fisheries productivities also. Potential for Development of Horticulture, Livestock, Fisheries, Agro-forestry and Post-harvest Processing etc. Horticulture Nagaland agro-climatic conditions are quite conducive for cultivation of fruits, vegetables, plantation crops, flowers and spices, yet for majority of farmers horticultural crop production is a backyard activity. In Nagaland the total horticultural crop area in the year 2010-11 was 33,274 ha with 2,09,538 metric tons of fruit production. The main fruit crops are Apple, Peer, Plum, Peach, Orange, Lemon, Pomelo, Pomegranate, Papaya, Banana, Guava, Jack fruit, Pineapple and Passion fruit. Farmers produce vegetables mainly for self-consumption and as an income generating activity.