 We have an army of FPOs/Cooperatives who are organized, coordinated and can control the activities that reach the global consumer market through their core competencies of local products which has huge demand. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: binod.anand@gmail.com Availability of high-yielding varieties/hybrids and increased irrigated facilities have resulted in the (Volume Il) development of production-intensive cropping systems in several parts of India, and this has catalyzed further agronomic research based on the cropping-system approach. Many changes have also taken place in the crop-production technologies. And this necessitated the revision of the earlier publication brought out in 2002. The revised textbook is in two volumes: First is covering Foodgrains and second is on Commercial Crops. The discipline of Agronomy has no longer remained mere field trials without application of discoveries emanating from the related disciplines of Genetics, Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry, Plant Biochemistry, etc. The future Agronomy Landscape will face challenges of climate change, transboundary issues, TRIPS and other trade-related barriers, biotic and abiotic stresses, consequences of biotechnology and genetic engineering and increased market demands in terms of quality assurance, customized food crops, global competition, ecosystem services on land and social equities etc. The Agronomy must measure up to these futuristic challenges with well-defined metrics and methodologies for performance. The advent of hydroponics, precision farming, bio-sensors, fertigation, landscaping, application of ICT, GPS and GIS tools and micro-irrigation is in the horizon. This revised edition in two volumes covers fundamentals of the subject and at the same time will inspire and prepare teachers and students for the emerging frontiers.   

Website Link: https://icar.gov.in/  In This Issue Cover I : Crop protection in Blackgram by woman farmer Cover IV : United Nations Decade on Ecosystem Restoration 2021-2030 Volume 73, No. 05 MAY 2023 IS/ISO 9001:2015 Organization Subscription Single Copy : ` 30 Annual : ` 300 (inland) : US$ 50 (overseas) ADVISORY BOARD Chairman : Dr A K Singh Members • Dr SK Malhotra • Dr SK Chaudhari • Dr Ashok Kumar • Dr Amresh Chandra • Dr M Sujatha • Dr Padmini Swain • Dr VK Singh • Dr AS Panwar • Ravindra Verma Project Director, : Dr Suresh Kumar DKMA Malhotra Incharge (EEU) : Ravindra Verma Editing Associates : Deepshikha Dixit Ridhima In-charge (PU) : Punit Bhasin CTO (Production) : K B Gupta For editorial queries contact: Ravindra Verma Editor (Indian Farming) ICAR-DKMA 011-2584 2828 Extn. 614 e-mail: ijags.dkma@gmail.com For Subscription and Advertisement contact: J P Upadhye In-charge, Business Unit, DKMA, ICAR Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa New Delhi 110 012 Telefax: 011-2584 3657 e-mail: bmicar@icar.org.in, businessuniticar@gmail.