 Sandhu, ADG (Seeds) Co-chairperson : Dr. M. Dadlani, JD(R), IARI Rapporteurs : Dr. M. Bhaskaran, Head, DSST, TNAU Dr. Sherry R. Jacob, NBPGR A. Basic studies on seed germination, vigour and longevity: Topic introduction - Dr. Swati Sen-Mandi, Prof., Bose Institute, Kolkata - Dr. V. Krishnasamy, Prof., Biotechnology, TNAU B. Second generation seed quality enhancement technologies: Topic introduction - Dr. Dr. V.A. Tonapi, Head, DSST, IARI - Dr. Manish Patel, Incotech India Pvt. Ltd. Based on the above lead presentations, the following research gaps and researchable areas have emerged to prepare the roadmap for seed research in this area: 1. Species, varietal and seed lot specific studies on molecular basis of seed germination, vigour and longevity, along with basic studies on the role of LPOs, ACCs and flavonoids in seed vigour and longevity. For a comprehensive analysis of seed germination, both pre- and post-maturation stages should be analyzed. 2. Genetic and molecular basis of seed dormancy is another major area to be addressed. 3. Optimization of harvesting time based on physiological maturity indices to ensure maximum seed quality, needs to be studied. 4. Mechanism of desiccation tolerance, enhancing storage life of primed seeds, synthetic seed technology, and basic seed anatomy studies. 5. Advanced biotechnological and OMIC tools should be utilized, for staying in tune with international research. 6. Linking of all the basic studies with practical field situation is very important. For this basic and applied research should go hand in hand. 7. The basic research needs to translate into useful analytical tools and novel technologies.  of 23 Proceedings of Consultation meeting to prepare “Road Map for Seed Research in India”, 1st August, 2011, IARI, New Delhi 8. Absence of commercial protocols for even routinely followed techniques like seed priming and dormancy breaking is a matter of serious concern and has to be looked into. 9. The novel analytical tools currently emerging in the Seed Industry viz., cold plasma coating, single seed analyzer, chlorophyll fluorescence analysis, Q2 technology, electron treatment needs to be adopted to enhance seed quality. 10. Packaging materials, packaging environment vis-a-vis seed viability and longevity, including vacuum packing for seed storage. 11. To obtain maximum benefit from second generation seed treatment technologies and analytical tools, which are highly accurate and reproducible, we need to have an integrated approach involving Seed Industry, Physical Science, Plant Science and Computer Science. 12. Creating facilities for on farm seed priming through community seed systems need to be explored to benefit rainfed seed ecology. 13. Designing workable drying technologies in relation to wet treatment of crops needs special emphasis. 14. Developing designer seeds with switch-on and switch-off mechanism of germination to avoid staggered planting and to aid perfect synchrony.