 ●Profits earned by the KVK would be utilized for creating new infrastructure and maintenance or renovation of the production units. ●10 per cent of the annual profits must be spent on creation of facilities for the common welfare of staff, staff amenities, recreation and sports etc. The Chief Scientist-cum-Head may constitute staff welfare committee. ●The Chief Scientist-cum-Head of the KVKs will ensure that the profits earned are ploughed back to the revolving fund account every year and 25 per cent of the funds should be actually utilized every year to improve the infrastructure or for enhancing the capabilities of the KVK to produce the technology inputs in a better way in the years to come. ●The Chief Scientist-cum-Head of the KVK shall have the powers for utilization of revolving fund money for meeting the expenses on infrastructure improvement not supported under regular KVK budget. ●The host organization cannot utilize the revolving fund money and the profits generated for any other purpose except for the cause of the KVK. 172 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK APPENDIX XXI Schedule Showing Transactions Under Revolving Funds During 201 - 201 Name of the KVK...................................... Sl. No. Name of the Opening Balance Receipts Payment Closing Balance Activity as on 01.04.201_ 201_ - 201_ 201 -201_ as on 31.03.201_ (`) (`) (`) (`) Total Assistant Administrative Officer Chief Scientist-cum-Head 173 Appendices APPENDIX XXII Format For Tender Enquiry To ............................................... ............................................... Dear Sir, Sub: Invitation for quotations for supply of 1. You are invited to submit your most competitive quotation for the following goods: Brief Description Specification* Quantity Delivery period of the Goods Place of Installation Delivery requirement if any *Whether ISI mark · Similar capacity ( say horse power) · Computer configuration · UPS capacity etc 2. Bid Price; (a) The contract shall be for the full quantity as describe above. Correction if any shall be made by crossing out, initialing with date and rewriting. (b) All duties, taxes and other levies payable by the contractor under the contract shall be included in the contract shall be included in the total price. (c) The rate quoted by the bidder shall be fixed for the duration of the contract. 3. Validity of Quotation.: Sufficient time may be kept so as to finalize the purchase but not less than 15 days. 4. Opening of Quotations: Quotation will be opened in the presence of bidders or their representatives who choose to attend on the date and time and at the place specified in the letter of invitation. 5. Evaluation of the Quotation: The quotation will be considered only when it is (i) Properly signed (ii) Terms and conditions are acceptable to the supplier. 6.