 Besides this, one set each of 350 samples of wheat advanced lines and varieties were sent to Bangladesh and Bolivia for screening against blast disease, under collaborative research project. 45 samples of Dolichos (5 each) exported to African partners in Burkina Faso, Ghana, Kenya, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, Uganda, Namibia and Senegal under collaborative research project ‘Evaluation of Stress Tolerant Orphan Legumes for dryland farming system across Sub-Saharan Africa and India’. Germplasm characterization/evaluation: A total of 25,325 accessions of germplasm were characterized for agro-morphological traits at New Delhi. Agro- morphologically diverse core set is being developed in sesame, cowpea, pea, lentil and linseed. Screening against biotic and abiotic stresses in different crops was done in 8,500 and 9,215 accessions, respectively. Biochemical evaluation of 6,580 accessions was undertaken in different crops for oil content, protein, sugar, amino acids, antioxidants and active principles. Field view of lentil phenotyping for drought tolerance under irrigated (left) and rainfed (right) conditions Plant quarantine: A total of 1,22,736 imported samples were processed for quarantine clearance. The 7,180 samples infested/ infected with different pests. From this, 83 samples were rejected due to fungal pathogens of quarantine importance. Important interceptions included-fungi, Phoma exigua and Phoma herbarum in Momordica charantia from Thailand, Tilletia barclayana in Oryzae sativa from USA, Diaporthae phaseolorum in Jatropha curcas from Germany, Bipolaris maydis in Zea mays from Mexico, Diaporthae phaseolorum, Graphium ulmi in Luffa acutángula and L. cylindrica from Thailand, insects; Bruchus rufimanus in Lathyrus spp. from Spain; B. dentipes in Vicia faba from Lebanon and Callosobruchus subinnotatus in Vigna subterranea from Niger. Nematodes Aphelenchoides besseyi on Oryza sativa from Bangladesh, Brazil, Philippines and USA, Aphelenchus avenae, Helicotylenchus sp. Pratylenchus penetrans, Seed health testing for pest-free conservation A total of 12,612 indigenous samples were processed for pest-free conservation. The 2,869 samples were subjected to X-ray radiography. A total of 514 samples were infested with insect-pests; 602 samples were infected with different fungi; 280 samples of rice seeds were infected with nematode. Of the total infested/ infected, 45 samples were rejected due to Tilletia carries in wheat, Tilletia barclayana in rice, and Peronospora manshurica in soyabean. GENETIC RESOURCES ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 21 Rotylenchus ssp and second stage juveniles of Meloidogyne sp. on pear and apple saplings imported from Belgium and France were also intercepted. Six viruses which are not reported from India were intercepted. Four noxious weeds (Polygonum lapathifolium, Echinochloa crus-pavonis, Convolvulus plebeia and Avena sterilis) not reported from India were intercepted.