8 lakh ha to 5 lakh ha to produce 5 lakh tonnes (1.0 t t/ha), 3.4 lakh tonnes in place of present level of 1.6 lakh tonnes. D. Introduction of high yielding varieties of various rabi pulses and oilseeds (particularly, rape & mustard) with better adaptation to acidic soil, moisture stress and suitability for late sowing. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 52 E. Develop and promote situation specific agronomic practices with emphasis on moisture stress management and INM, IPM and cropping systems. F. Improve farmers’ access to irrigation for rapid increase in productivity. G. Application of micronutrients and lime C. Fisheries A. Disilting and re designing of 1 lakh ha beels. B. Introduction of capture cum culture fisheries in beels. C. Maintenance of natural breeding ground D. Establishment of mini hatcheries for stock replenishment. Induced breeding will be done for production of fish seed which will be released in the beel. E. Maintenance of water pH. Lime will be applied @ 400 kg per ha per year. F. Capturing gravid fish will be stopped during breeding season as per the Assam Fisheres Rules, 1953. G. Culture of Koi fish (Thailand strain) in small ponds below 0.1 ha which are not suitable for carp culture. It takes only four months to attain marketable size. H. Introduction of aerators in semi-intensive carp culture ponds I. Proper feeding J. Regular fertilization K. Integrated pig fish farming: Pig dung will be recycled in the fish pond. L. Integrated rice fish farming: Fish rearing will be integrated with rice farming. D. Horticulture A. An area of 0.80 lakh ha of fallow lands will be brought under horticulture. B. Inter cropping of fruit trees will be introduced in tea gardens. Citrus, orange and arecanut will be planted. C. Total area under horticulture shall be expanded from 1,36,000 ha to 1,50,000 with primary emphasis on banana, citrus, pineapple, papaya, litchi, guava, coconut with on garden approach. D. Increase productivity of potato and other vegetable crops and conversion of low yielding vegetable growing areas into floriculture covering the foothills and mid-hill areas of the state. E. Utilization of foot hill areas/tilla lands and the bunds around the wastelands, beels etc. F. V type nurseries will be established. G. Green house technology will be used for floriculture and high value crops H. Tissue culture facility will be created for citrus, banana and other crops I. Protected cultivation will be introduced for vegetables covering 0.1 lakh ha J. Conservation facilities will be created for, maintenance and production of indigenous State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 53 fruits. K. Integrated potato seed production programme for totally replacing the farmers’ non- descript varieties with improved varieties E. Floriculture A.