 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3090 Treatment of afara in animals with karela (Momordica charantia) and black salt 3091 Use of solution made from tobacco for curing afara in animals 3092 Treatment of afara in animals by using a mixture of kasondhi leaf, asafoetida and onion 3093 Treatment of afara in animals with nausadar and black pepper This ITK is practised in village Nitoie in district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. For the treatment of afara, a paste is prepared by adding 200 g karela (Momordica charantia) and 20 g black salt. This paste is given to the animal twice daily for curing the afara disease. Keywords: afara, karela (Momordica charantia), black salt When an animal suffers from afara the cattle owners of village Hamirpur of district Alwar (Rajasthan) soak 300- 400 g leaves of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) in 2 litre water in an earthen pot and leave it for 3-4 days to decay. Afterwards it is filtered with cotton cloth and about 200 ml of this extract is mixed with 300 ml fresh water and drenched to cattle with help of bamboo pipe thrice a day. This treatment is continued up to 4-5 days for complete recovery. This practice has 80-90% efficacy and 65-75% people are using this practice since age-old time. Key words: afara, tobacco, bamboo pipe A paste of 10 g asafoetida and 200 g onions is prepared and given orally with 100 g kasodhi leaves to the infected animals. The people of village Khata in district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh follow this treatment. Keywords: afara, kasondhi leaf, asafoetida, onion A paste of nausadar and black pepper (each 10 g) is prepared by mixing 200 g desi ghee and it is given to the animal for curing afara. People of village Nitoie of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use this treatment Keywords: afara, nausadar, black pepper, desi ghee Shri Lala Ram, S/o Shri Tika Ram, Nitoie, Bhamora, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri Siya Ram, S/o Shri Payre Lai, Khata, Rithoura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Tota Ram, S/o Shri Chandan Ram, Nitoie, Bhamora, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3094 Treatment of afara in animals with red chilli and wheat bran 3095 Use of guma grass for treatment of afara in animals 3096 Treatment of afara in animals with human bone 3097 Treatment of afara in animals with asafoetida, onion, garlic and ajwain (Trachyspermum ammi) 3098 Treatment of afara in cattle with guma To cure afara disease in animals, people of village Kharia in district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh burn 250 g wheat bran and 50 g red chilli, and its smoke is given to the affected animal twice daily.