 TRANSFER OF TECHNOLOGY Technology Transferred to Government of Assam Government of Assam was provided technical assistance for procurement of agricultural machinery, namely 8-row rice transplanter, manual rice thresher, self- propelled walking reaper, and riding type vertical conveyor reaper. Rice Transplanter Demonstrations in Bihar Field demonstrations of self-propelled rice transplanter at KVK, Harnaut, Brijwan Farm, Bihar Sharif and Mitthapur Farm - ARI, Patna were conducted in co-operation with Bihar Agricultural College, Sabour; RAU Agricultural Research Institute, Patna and District Agricultural Officer, Nalanda to demonstrate the benefits of mechanized transplanting of rice to farmers of traditionally rice-growing areas of Bihar. Demonstration of Reaper Harvester and Zero-till Drill in Bihar Field demonstrations were organized at Barh, Harnaut, Mokama villages of Bihar. The then hon’ble Union Minister of Agriculture, Shri Nitish Kumar witnessed the demonstration of self-propelled reaper at Badaura village and zero till demonstration at KVK farm, Harnaut. Supply of Prototypes to NEH Region The CIAE,Bhopal supplied 1,242 prototypes costing Rs 8,45,129 to ICAR Research Complex for NEH region, Barapani, Shillong for demonstration in the Region under multi-location trial purpose. HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT Summer School A Summer School on Energy Management in Agriculture was organized by CIAE, Bhopal. Seventeen participants from various SAU/ICAR Institutes attended the programme. The School focused on the technological advancements made in different DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 152 ● Summer and winter schools organized by CIAE, Bhopal ● Trainers’ Training Centre, CIAE, Bhopal organized 42 training courses facets of energy management in agriculture including mechanization trend and its impact on source-wise energy-use pattern; energy conservation technologies; use of renewable energy sources in Indian agriculture and energy modelling and forecasting. Winter School Winter School on Advances in Manufacturing Technology of Agricultural Equipment was organized by CIAE, Bhopal for teachers, researchers, extension- workers, manufacturers to facilitate quality manufacturing of farm machinery. Twenty-one participants interacted and exchanged experiences with professionals during this school. The course covered 8 areas, viz. CAD/CAM, casting/moulding, material removal, joining process, quality control, materials and their quality upgradation, industrial engineering, critical components and case studies on agricultural equipment. Training Advances in Farm Equipment Manufacturing Eleven participants comprising university teachers, researchers and extension- workers were provided training to upgrade their knowledge on quality manufacturing of agricultural implements in a 3-week training course on Advances in Farm Equipment Manufacturing, organized during February 1-20, 2001. An engineer from Sri Lanka also joined this advance training course.