 Further, the fallback option and the threat point of the women will determine their bargaining power and ultimate decision-making. The bias against women with respect to landholding can adversely affect their involvement in agricultural decision-making. It can also deprive the agrarian women of their livelihood. In spite of the fact that India enacted the [20] Act (HSAA)1 in 2005, significant gender biasness still remains [11], leading to poor participation in agrarian decision-making by women in India, especially in the eastern states where the percentage of women landholders is comparatively less. This has affected their income-generating abilities and livelihood since land provides the basis for income-generating activities in most of the developing countries including India. Therefore, the basic objective of this paper is to understand the gendered perspective of agricultural decision-making in one of the eastern states of India, i.e., Odisha. In other words, the present study aims to explore the relationship between gender-based decision-making in agricultural activities and land ownership. The study hypothesises that women with land ownership actively participate in the agricultural decision-making process. The dependent variable is gender-based agrarian decision-making whereas the independent variable is land ownership in this study. The rest of the paper is organized as follows, the second section develops the conceptual framework with the related literature, the third * Corresponding author. E-mail addresses: dsahoo@iitbbs.ac.in (D. Sahoo), dmohapatra@ravenshawuniversity.ac.in (D. Mohapatra), jb15@iitbbs.ac.in (J. Behera). 1 This act empowers all the children of the parents to have claim over the properties of the parents (https://ncwapps.nic.in/acts/TheHinduSuccessionAct1956.pdf). This is an institutional and legal arrangement to economically empower the girls’ children of parents. However, the socio-cultural practices are so deep-rooted in Indian system that do not give the ownership right of properties of parents to girls children are dominant over the institutional and legal arrangement of India. Contents lists available at ScienceDirect World Development Sustainability journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/wds https://doi.org/10.1016/j.wds.2024.100127 Received 22 November 2022; Received in revised form 3 December 2023; Accepted 18 February 2024 World Development Sustainability 4 (2024) 100127 2 section discusses the research design with variable data description, the fourth section analyses the data with discussion while the policy im­ plications along with the conclusion of the paper is presented in the last section. 2. Related Literature and Conceptual Framework Empowerment is defined as “the process by which those who have been denied the ability to make strategic life choices acquire such ability” [23]. This process encompasses three interrelated dimensions: resources, agencies, and achievements.