 Human resource has been developed to meet not only the regional needs but also the states’ and country’s requirements to refurbish the growth rate in agricultural sector. AUs are also pursuing research projects relevant to some of the emerging regional problems being faced by the farmers and striving hard to develop linkages between learning and research for the betterment of life of the farmers in the country. 1.1 Agricultural Education System (AES) in India It is one of the largest national networks of AES in the world, comprising 63 State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), 4 Deemed-to-be-Universities, 3 Central Agricultural Universities and 4 Central Universities with agriculture faculty. ICAR works in a partnership mode with SAUs and has contributed significantly in developing first rate human resource by way of co-ordinating, supporting and guiding various aspects of higher agricultural education. It provides funds for development and strengthening facilities in vital areas, creation of teaching and learning facilities, capacity building of faculty and scholarships/fellowships to the students for quality assurance. To reduce the academic inbreeding in agricultural education, students are being encouraged to go to other states for pursuing higher studies by facilitating item with grant of National Talent Scholarship, ICAR-PG Scholarship and ICAR-JRF/SRF (PGS), which are revised from time to time. Drone assembling session at MPKV, Rahuri Landscape of Higher Agricultural Education in India 3 1.2 Emerging Challenges in Agriculture Sector Today, agriculture faces several grave concerns such as stagnating/declining productivity and profitability, depleting quality of natural resources, biotic and abiotic stresses, inefficient use of agro-inputs, unsafe livelihoods for millions of small and marginal farmers, regional imbalances in agricultural productivity, a general lack of qualified manpower in the frontier areas to deliver at grassroots level, rising input costs, changing food habits and quality concerns, fragmented processing industry, high post-harvest losses, lack of value addition and processing, fossil fuel crisis and growing emphasis on biofuels, emerging climate change, rising quality competitiveness under the pressure of globalization, etc. Persistent problems like poverty, debt- trap, vulnerable markets and poor access to credits, etc. are dragging the sector into distress conditions. To address these challenges, some extraordinary efforts are required to be made especially for development of quality human resource that is critical for sustaining, diversifying and realizing the potential of agriculture. High-tech agriculture could be one of the options and for that high-end research is needed and to achieve this highly motivated world class human resource and facilities are required that can flow from world class agricultural institutions and AUs which at present are lacking in the country. 1.