 freshwater, brackishwater and open-sea. Considering the available resource potential of the country, technological advancements made over the years and the increased thrust of the Government in recent years, the sector projects accelerated growth performance also in the coming years. Recent years have witnessed increasing adoption of different scientific aquaculture technologies, not only targeting higher production but also for the production of diversified finfish fish and shellfish species having higher market demand. Technologies have been developed for breeding and seed production of more than 60 commercially-important finfish and shellfish species, thereby providing greater choice to the farmers for adoption of the technologies. To have an assured supply of quality seed for aquaculture development, greater focus is also given on breed improvement of important cultivable species, and in this aspect, the development made through selective breeding is worth mentioning. Since feed forms the main input cost of fish farming, there has been a greater focus on the development of several feed formulations for different finfish and shellfish species. Considering the fact that aquaculture in recent years has witnessed the increasing threat of different diseases, it is expected that the research institutes give greater attention to fish health management. In this endevour the execution of a massive programme on fish disease surveillance with the financial support of the National Fisheries Development Board, Government of India is quite significant in the management of fish diseases in the country. The successful demonstration of cage culture technology of seabass, cobia, pompano and groupers in open- sea has opened-up enormous scope for utilization of vast coastal resources for the production of high-value species. Similarly, the adoption of large-scale cage aquaculture in medium and large reservoirs needs special attention. Besides conventional pond-based farming, there has been increasing interest in the adoption of new technologies like re-circulatory aquaculture systems for high-value species, biofloc technology, etc., which provide increasing scope for entrepreneurship development. In capture fisheries too, strategies are being made for the harvesting of the potential deep-sea resources and in this context, the development of new fuel-efficient crafts and appropriate gear designs by Indian research institutes is of high relevance. Greater attention is also given to resource-specific stock enhancement programmes in reservoirs for the effective utilization of the vast resources of over 3.0 million ha. At a time, when the sector was looking to maintain the growth pace in the fish production to meet the increasing demand of both domestic and export fronts, the initiation of Pradhan Mantri Matshya Sampada Yojana of the Department of Fisheries, Government of India has been like a dream coming true.