 Data management loT and Al based Thermal Image Analysis for Mastitis Detection * Data Acquisition * Data Output * Collecting thermal image from dairy animal * Generating diagnostic confirmation with animal database details using either * Provide actionable insight and * Hand held IRT Camera recommendation for proactive management of * Smartphone based IRT camera incoming mastitis infection * Fixed IRT camera in milking parlous alley * Data Governance * Data Transmission * Addressing ownership, security and privacy * Transmission of images with ID of animals of collected data and the teat * Ensuring compliance with data protection * Ensuring real time data transfer for prompt regulation and ethical standards analysis and decision making * Benefit of Effective Data Management * Image Processing * Facilitate accurate mastitis detection and * Implementation of Al algorithm, such as DE proactive decision making CNN for processing thermal image data * Enhance efficacy and effectiveness of health * Analysis of temperature pattern for early management practice in dairy animals indication of mastitis by comparing the * Ensure data integrity, security and privacy previous data of same cows for all stake holders b. System architecture Description: The mastitis detection system comprises of interconnected data acquisition, processing, and management subsystems. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 101 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 102 Sub-Systems:  Animal Database system: History and performance recording with smartphone- based access  Infrared Thermography (IRT) Sensors: Capture temperature variations on the udder's surface.  IoT Subsystem: Facilitates data transmission, real-time monitoring, and remote access.  AI Subsystem (DL-CNN): Analyzes IRT data for mastitis detection using deep learning algorithms.  Data Management System: Stores, processes, and manages collected data for decision support. c. Communication Infrastructure: Interfaces and Protocols: IoT Connectivity: For image and video and data communication Benefits: Enables real-time monitoring, data analysis, and remote access for stakeholders. d. Deployment Considerations: Technical Considerations:- Evaluate network speed, coverage, and latency requirements for efficient data transmission. Compatibility with existing infrastructure and future scalability. e. Regulatory Considerations:  Compliance with Data Protection Regulations:  Ensure adherence to privacy laws (e.g., GDPR) and industry standards for data security.  Implement measures for data encryption, access control, and secure storage. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Sub-Systems: e Animal Database system: History and performance recording with smartphone- based access e Infrared Thermography (IRT) Sensors: Capture temperature variations on the udder's surface.