 31 Agenda 13: Restoring position of Assistant Director General (Home Science) PAU, Ludhiana proposed that the post of Additional Director General (Home Science) be restored at the ICAR level to strengthen the component of Home Science to serve the mandate of improving the quality of life of rural families in a better manner. The necessity of restoring the post of ADG (Home Science) was felt. It was decided to take up the matter separately. [Action: DDG (Extn.)] Agenda 14: Filling up of ADG (Home Science) post in ICAR ANGRAU, Hyderabad presented the agenda and emphasized upon restoring the post of ADG Home Science in ICAR. The point was discussed at agenda 13. Agenda 15: Posts of DDG, ADG and Principal Scientist of Home Science at ICAR level CCSHAU, Hisar presented that based on the recommendation of Randhawa Committee Report, Home Science Colleges were established in State Agricultural Universities for imparting Home Science education to rural girls with special emphasis on improving quality of life of farm families. Therefore, there is a dire need to address the issue and strengthen this sector as Women in Agriculture and Home Science discipline. Commensurate with their contribution, ICAR may consider creating Division/Posts so as to cater to this need. It was decided to look into the matter later on. [Action: DDG (Extn.)] Agenda 16: Identification of Home Science Colleges as Human Resource Development Centres ANGRAU, Hyderabad mentioned that Home Science Colleges should be identified as Human Resource Development Centres as they deal with several aspects related to farm and home especially in rural areas. It was decided to look into the matter later on. [Action: DDG (Edn.)] Agenda 17: Provision of NPA/NCA to Agriculture Scientists CCSHAU, Hisar mentioned that on the pattern on Veterinary Scientists, Non Practicing Allowance/Non Consultancy Allowance should be given to Agricultural Scientists. The agenda was discussed. [Action: Director (P)] Agenda 18: Central University status to IVRI deemed University IVRI, Bareilly presented the agenda based on recommendations of Dr. Panjab Singh Committee of UGC. It was suggested that IVRI should explore the possibilities. [Action: Director, IVRI] Agenda 19: Development of norms by ICAR for the establishment of professional chairs, fellowships, awards in the public sector institutions ANGRAU, Hyderabad presented the agenda. It was informed that the steps are being taken in this regard. [Action: ADG (HRD)] 32 Agenda 20: Linking of ICAR institutes with the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) for vocational education in agriculture and allied areas ADG (EQR) presented the agenda. The Director (Vocational Education), National Institute of Open Schooling, NOIDA, Gautam Buddha Nagar vide letter F.No. 1/NIOS/VED/Agri/ICAR- corssp/2 dated 20.10.2010, addressed to the Directors of ICAR Institutes with a copy to the DG, ICAR, has requested for collaboration for the courses conducted by the ICAR institutes.