 23 Rajasthan 464 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 About 4.54 m ha area covering most parts of Barmer (except Siwana block) and Jodhpur (except Bilara and Bhopalgarh blocks) districts lies in this zone. It is one of the most arid zones of the state where the annual rainfall is low and erratic and droughts are very common. Rainfall ranges from 216 to 496 mm. During summer season, maximum temperature may goas high as 49°C but nights are usually cool and thus diurnal temperature range may be 20°Cor more. During winters, minimum temperatures may sometimes dip below zero.Net area sown is 58% of reporting area of the zone with 113% cropping intensity. Surface water resources are almost non-existent. Groundwater is deep and often brackish. Net irrigated area is 17% of net sown area and 98% irrigation is through groundwater. Natural vegetation is mostly seasonal. Pearl millet, clusterbean, moth bean, mung bean, rapeseed & mustard, wheat, castor seed, groundnut, sorghum, sesame, cotton and onion are major crops. Ganganagar and Hanumangarh districts fall in this zone covering 2.06 m ha area. It is an alluvial and aeolian plain. This zone has mostly medium and fine textured deep to very deep soils. There are 6.9 m holdings in Rajasthan occupying 21.1 m ha area. Marginal and small holdings occupy only 16 per cent of total area while their share is 58 per cent in total number of holdings. 23.1 Major constraints About 80-90% of annual rainfall is received during monsoon season. Rainfall is low (580 mm) and erratic. Growing period is short due to late onset and early withdrawal of monsoon. Early, mid-season or terminal droughts are common due to late onset, breaks in monsoon or early withdrawal. About 61% area is arid. Soils of arid zone are light textured; have poor fertility, low water holding capacity and high infiltration rate. Soil organic carbon is less than 0.2% in most soils of this region. The south east and eastern part of Aravali range have sandy loam to clay loam soil type with relatively better water holding capacity. Groundwater is deep and of poor quality in several parts. Over-exploitation of groundwater is becoming a major challenge for sustainable resource use. Wind erosion is a major problem in arid areas, while hilly southern region faces problem of water erosion. A large tract of land is saline and alkaline in nature. Problem of secondary salinization is emerging in irrigated tracts due to poor water management or irrigation with poor quality water. Poor adoption of improved technologies in rainfed areas due to high perceived risk of crop failure. Common grazing resources are in very degraded condition due to high grazing pressure and no management. 465 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Very less availability of green fodder during non-monsoon seasons is a major challenge. During drought years, fodder scarcity poses strong challenge before the farmers. 23.