in 100 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Crop Science Irrigation management Critical crop growth stages Stage Days after planting Short duration varieties Long duration varieties Bud initiation 30‐35 35‐40 Flower opening 45‐50 55‐65 Seed filling 55‐80 65‐90 Supplemental pollination Bees play a very important role in increasing seed set in sunflower more particularly in open‐pollinated populations. Maintaining 5 hives/ha provides optimum requirement besides yielding valuable honey. Wherever bee activity is low, resort to supplemental hand pollination on alternate days preferably in the morning hours between 8 and 11 a.m. for about 2 weeks. For this purpose, cover the hands with muslin cloth and gently caress the heads with fingers and also touch the heads of neighbouring plants. Do not resort to insecticidal spray during the blooming period as it affects the visit of pollinators (bees). If absolutely essential, spray or dust in the evenings after 3 P.M. preferably with relatively safer insecticides like endosulfan or phosalone. www.icar.org.in 101 2002 ‐ 2007 E. Important diseases and their control methods Disease/causal organism Management practice/Control I. Alternaria blight and leaf spot (Alternaria helianthi) Treat the seed with Captan/Thiram @ 2.5 g or Carbendazim 1.0 g/kg seed. Early planting (kharif) escapes the disease. Spray with Mancozeb (0.3%), 3‐4 times at 15 days interval or Rovral (0.05%) 2 times at 15 days interval. II. Rust (Puccinia helianthi) Removal and destruction of crop residues, volunteer sunflower plants reduce the disease severity. Foliar spray with Mancozeb/Zineb 0.2% or calixin 0.1% at 30 days interval. III. Downy mildew (Plasmopara halstedii) Use disease resistant hybrids i.e., LSH‐1 and LSH‐3 In endemic areas avoid continuous sunflower growing, follow 3‐4 yearly crop rotation Early sowing, shallow planting escapes from the disease. Clean cultivation, roguing of infected plants reduces the disease incidence. Treat the seed with Metalaxyl 35 SD @ 6 g/kg of seed and followed by foliar spray of (Metalaxyl/Ridomyl). IV. Sclerotium wilt (Sclerotium rolfisii) Seed dressing with captaf/carboxin 3‐6 g/kg of seed. Adding of soil amendments and antagonistic fungi such as Trichoderma harizanum incorporated into soil reduces the disease incidence. Crop rotation for 3‐4 years to be adopted. Avoid moisture stress/water logging conditions in the field. V. Charcoal rot (Macrophomina phaseolina) Seed treatment with thiram 3 to 4 g/seed. Avoid moisture stress during high summer. Follow deep ploughing in summer and crop rotation. VI. Head rot (Rhizopus arrhizus) Spray with Copper oxychloride @ 0.4% or Mancozeb 0.3% combined with Endosulfan (0.05%) at 50% flowering stage. VII. Sunflower Necrosis Disease Follow clean cultivation and remove weeds specially Parthenium, Commelina etc. both from inside and neighbouring fields and also remove and destroy diseased plants. Seed treatment with Imidacloprid @ 5 g/kg of seed against insect vectors.