 Discussions with women farmers revealed that they feel they have less access to agricultural advisory services than men, affecting their ability to make informed farming decisions. Moreover, they shared that men have higher access and exposure to markets and participate in discussions at input shops. Therefore, men often make all decisions regarding seeds, fertilizers, and crop sales. 5. Discussion According to the Climate Action Tracker (2022), India’s climate commitment as reflected in the Nationally Determined Contribution7 (NDC) submitted to United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) outperforms those of other G20 countries. Agricul­ tural adaptation measures specified for India under NDCs do not include CSA by name, however, it includes related practices such as develop­ ment of irrigation systems or technologies; diversification of agricultural crops; animals, or income sources; soil conservation and prevention of soil erosion; agroforestry; crop or soil management; livestock; promo­ tion of traditional or indigenous knowledge; agroecology; management of fisheries and marine resources; and insurance, credit and micro­ finance (Richards et al., 2016). Our results from the qualitative discus­ sions identify the scope and need for mainstreaming the narrative of adaptation considering widespread impacts on agriculture. In the context of farmers in Gujarat, it was observed that the adaptation stra­ tegies preferred by them are more focused on reducing income uncer­ tainty in the short term, which sometimes may not be climate smart in the long-term. For example, increased use of pesticides and fertilizers to boost plant growth and minimize losses in light of the extreme climatic changes that have impacted agriculture in the state in recent times. This highlights that while there is significant development with respect to the coverage and quality of adaptation ambitions in the agriculture sector, there is scope for further mainstreaming climate change adaptation and mitigation considerations in the agricultural development sector. Moreover, the current experience in India as well as globally points toward the need for strengthening institutional arrangements and convergence in terms of engagement processes, gender-responsiveness, budgeting and investment, private sector engagement, and policy coherence and coordination (Bryan et al., 2023; Crumpler, 2021; Anderson and Sriram, 2019; Collins, 2018). Although there is greater recognition of the needs and vulnerabilities of marginalized groups including women, a considerably smaller share of NDCs of developing countries include gender-responsive engagement processes, policies, and budgets, as well as indicators in the agriculture sectors (Crumpler, 2021). While India’s NDCs include gender considerations at an overall level, it does not yet specify gender in relation to the agriculture sector and adaptation and mitigation measures within it (Richards et al., 2016).