 • Recombinant VP6 protein based indirect immunoassay for detection of avian rotavirus D in diarrheic faecal samples was developed. • Developed new statistical model: a nonparametric generalized linear mixed model with a mean structure was defined using spatial splines. This model is suitable for fitting aggregate level Discrete/Count Data. This model is also referred as Spatially Non-Linear Model. • Copyrights from Registrar of Copyrights were granted for the “Software for Small Area Estimation” (Registration No. SW-10788/2018) and “Data Entry Software for Crop Area and Yield Estimation Survey” (Registration No. SW- 10008/2018). • Microencapsulation of marigold oleoresin, extracted from marigold flowers by supercritical fluid extraction was done. Developed curcumin- prebiotic based nano-emulsions for the preparation of microcapsules. • Microencapsulation of palm oil using in-house developed spray chiller technology equipped with temperature controlling system. • To identify the genes regulated by heat shock factor-1 (HSF-1), one of the key mediators of heat shock response in pigs, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay was conducted followed by isolation of ChIP DNA. The ChIP DNA was subjected to next generation sequencing and bioinformatics analysis. Based on the analysis a 21 DNA binding nucleotide consensus sequence was identified, which could be associated with heat responsive element in the genome. • IVRI Pashu prajanan app (Android app) in Assamese language (No. L-79311/2018) developed. • New technique was developed to measure GHG emission through bubble and sediments of mangrove-rice system in Sundarban. • Six new microbial-germplasm isolated/identified from mangrove+ rice system in Sundarban and registered in NCBI. • Potential shRNA molecules were identified for knocking down two lipid biosynthesis genes under in vitro cell culture system, which may be used for development of knock down chicken for producing low fat egg and meat. • Paper dip assay kit was developed to detect presence of protein (SCD, SREBP1 and FASN) in serum by dipping a strip of special type of paper in the reaction mixture. This kit is very economical with a price of ` 10/sample. This kit is easy, simple and needs 10 min to obtain results. Patent was granted (Patent No.: 309612) on Diagnostic kit, primers and method for sex determination in chicks and adults of avian species. • Standardization of minimal processing process protocol for pineapple, tender jackfruit, matured jackfruit and ripe jackfruit. • Digital Sequence Information (DSI) has assumed great significance in the field of genetic resources. Based on the algorithm developed in this project (reported last year), an interactive application called G2G (Gene bank to Gene bank) was developed. Emeritus scientists/professors Emeritus Scientists (60) and Emeritus Professor (45) are currently appointed.