 The collected data was meticulously organized in a structured spreadsheet format. Subsequently, the analysis of this data involved employing fundamental mathematical and statis­ tical calculations to derive insights and conclusions. 3. Results and discussions 3.1. Analysis of data The major emphasis of our study is on the factors affecting the non- adoption of newly emerged technology. The result data with their interpretation is shown below. The objective findings of our study are given under the following major heads. The first objective is to identify and understand the factors affecting farmers’ adoption of emerging technology in Indian agriculture. The factors that influence the adoption process play a major role in understanding the situation and knowing where improvement is needed in the whole adoption process. Here, an effort has been made to know the factors interfering with adopting newly emerged technology. Detailed data about the factors affecting the adoption process of newly emerged technology is shown in (Fig. 1.) From the significant five factors, the biggest factor was its higher initial investment cost, which is reported by 89.70 percent of farmers. Because of that, the farmer cannot try the new technology. Specifically, hydroponics requires a few in­ struments like proper infrastructure, a water pump, pH meter, TDS meter and most importantly, a computer and the software for its proper functioning. After that, the second biggest factor is the non-awareness regarding newly emerged technology, which was reported by 88.96 percent of farmers; the third biggest factor was of low risk-taking ability of farmers, which was reported by 57.07 percent of farmers. Due to their low income, which is barely enough to fulfill their daily needs, they are not motivated to take any risk to adopt new technology for better returns. After that, some technology is limited to only one or few crops, but the farmer needs to grow different crop types according to market need, weather, insect and pest infestation etc. The fifth factor was the water availability in their fields and the quality of water, which is the primary input in farming. In the Saurashtra region of Gujarat, some of the Marwar regions of Rajasthan and the Vidarbha region of Mahara­ shtra faced this type of problem where available water is scarce, and the quality is also poor. Detailed information about the factors is given below. Fig. 1. Factors affecting farmers’ adoption of emerging technology in Indian agriculture. R. Rakholia et al. Journal of Agriculture and Food Research 17 (2024) 101238 6 The other factors reported in the survey are mentioned in (Table 4) with their respondents, percentages and rank to take a view in depth. A higher initial investment is one of the primary obstacles that farmers encounter when attempting to adopt emerging technologies. The financial burden shown in Figs. 1 and 2 directly influences farmers’ decision-making.