 Thermal degradation of crop residues: The hemi cellulosic and cellulosic bio-polymeric DTG segment gradually vanished as the process temperature increased whereas the lignin dominance was enhanced. However, the presence of all three bio-polymers cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin was remarkably noticed in torrefied biomaterial. During slow pyrolysis, hemicellulosic and cellulosic bio-polymers almost vanished and lignin bio-polymer dominated the processed bio-product. At high temperature after pyrolysis, only lignin was noticed. Torrefaction and SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 182 slow pyrolysis increased the total carbon (48% to 80%; at 200 to 450°C). The thermal degradation process was found to impart the changes in the surface morphology of the processed biomaterial and SEM image highlights the formation of micro-channel and micro-cavities on surface of thermally degraded biomaterial. The iso-conversional FWO model was found better than other models for measuring activation energy for complete range of conversion (from 0.1 to 0.9). Thermal degradation processes were found to reduce, on an average, the activation energy levels of the lignin segment as the process temperature increases. depth to be 11.38 and 1.29 g/m2/day for open raceway, and 11.75 and 1.37 g/m2/day for closed raceway ponds, respectively. In the hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) study, the maximum bio-crude yield (36%) of C. minutissima was obtained at 300°C under 200 bar pressure at 60 min retention time without catalyst use. The effect of various acid catalysts, viz. CH3COOH, HCOOH, HCl, H2SO4 and H3BO3 were studied, and CH3COOH was found to stimulate the bio-crude yield up to 45%. A protocol was standardized for maximum extraction of microalgal protein from C. minutissima biomass that can be substituted in the diets of freshwater fishes as a protein supplement. The selected protocol produced maximum extraction of protein up to 0.4 g/g. Biological filter for safe waste water irrigation: The sorption of cadmium and chromium as well as degradation of paracetamol by novel strains Pseudomonas aeruginosa IIWM-DW-02E (E), Bacillus cereus IIWM-DW-01O (O) and Acinetobacter baumannii IIWM-DW-03H (H) encapsulated in alginate beads was analyzed. Based on Langmuir equation the adsorption of Cd and Cr by the microbial isolates were in the order E > O > H. Isolate E had the maximum potential of degrading paracetamol. Three more novel bacterial isolates having potential of absorbing heavy metals and degrading paracetamol were identified and their RNA sequences were submitted in NCBI: Bacillus megaterium IIWM-DW-09I, Enterobacter asburiae IIWM-JS-07L and Bacillus cereus IIWM-OMS-06N. Synthetic municipal wastewater (COD=259.24±100.12 mg/l and Sulphate=180.17±31.