) Vivid presentations (field view, close-up of a single plant and seeds) with the help of Yes No photographs) Recommendations of the workshop, conference Yes No Acknowledgement of the submission of seed sample of variety/hybrid/ A, B and R lines of Yes No the hybrid submitted to the NBPGR Package of practices Yes No Proforma signed by all co-authors and head of organization Yes No Any other pertinent information Yes No Signature of the Head of the Institution 104 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS Table 2. Adaptability to agronomic variables Name of the proposed variety/hybrid: Adaptability zone: Production conditions: Nature of experiments Item Proposed National Zonal Local Latest Qual. Qual. Qual. variety check 1 check 2 check 3 released var. 1 var. 2 var. 3 check 4 Sowing date experiments Yield (q/ha) under (i) Early recommended sowing date (ii) Normal Percentage gain or loss (iii) Late when sown Fertilizer experiments Yield (q/ha) under (i) F0 recommended dose (ii) F1 Percentage gain or (iii) F2 loss under other doses Irrigation experiments Yield (q/ha) with (i) Level 1 (wherever applicable) adequate irrigation (ii) Level 2 Percentage gain or (iii) Level 3 loss with irrigation level Note: specify each date of sowing, fertilizer level and number of irrigations at i, ii, iii Table 1. Summarized yield data of the coordinated varietal trials Name of the proposed variety/hybrid: Adaptability zone: Production conditions: Item Year of No. of Proposed National Zonal Local Latest Qual. Qual. Qual. testing trials/ variety check 1 check 2 check 3 released var. 1 var. 2 var. 3 locations check 4 Mean yield (q/ha) 1st year a) Zonal 2nd year b) Across zones 3rd year (If applicable) Weighted mean Percentage increase 1st year or decrease over the 2nd year checks and qualifying 3rd year varieties Weighted mean Frequency in the top three groups (pooled for three years) Note: Qualifying variety is one which has completed three years of testing in the coordinated trials; Centre- wise and year -wise data must be appended, otherwise proposal will not be considered 105 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS Table 3. Reaction to major diseases Name of the proposed variety/hybrid: Adaptability zone: Production conditions: Disease name Item Proposed National Zonal Local Latest Qual. Qual. Qual. variety check 1 check 2 check 3 released var. 1 var. 2 var. 3 check 4 Disease 1 Natural 1st year 2nd year 3rd year Artificial 1st year 2nd year 3rd year Disease 2 Natural 1st year 2nd year 3rd year Artificial 1st year 2nd year 3rd year Disease 3 Natural 1st year 2nd year 3rd year Artificial 1st year 2nd year 3rd year Disease 4 Natural 1st year 2nd year 3rd year Artificial 1st year 2nd year 3rd year 106 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS Table 4. Reaction to insect-pests Name of the proposed variety/hybrid: Adaptability zone: Production conditions: Pest Item Proposed National Zonal Local Latest Qual. Qual. Qual.