 There have been overlapping IPM approaches in India, such as the traditional, exploitive/maximization phase, optimization phase, sustainable phase, and organic methods. Research F armers in the green revolution era are frequently overly ambitious in their efforts to achieve rapid plant protection results on their farms, resulting in the overuse and misuse of pesticides, which poses significant risks because they are carried out with only an immediate profit or production motive. Many concerns have emerged as a consequence of this, including excessive and untimely use of natural resources, insecticide resistance, pest resurgence, pest control failures, environmental and ecological imbalances, reduced biodiversity, and inappropriate input use. This article provides a brief overview of mango pests. Almost a dozen insect pests have been noticed damaging the crop to a significant extent, causing severe losses, and may thus be classified as major pests of mango. The hopper, mealybug, inflorescence midge, fruit fly, scale insect, shoot borer, leaf Webber, and stone weevil are among them. Insects that infest the crop during the flowering and fruiting periods cause the most severe damage. Hopper (Idioscopus clypealis, I. nitidulus and Amritodus atkinsoni) The hoppers are the most damaging and prevalent of all mango pests. The tender plant parts are punctured and sucked into the sap by a large number of nymphs and adult hoppers. This affects the vigour of the plants. Hoppers also secrete a sticky, sweet substance that promotes the growth of sooty mold. Throughout the year, there is a low population of hoppers, but it spikes in February-April and June-August. Their multiplication is aided by the presence of shade and high humidity. Such conditions are common in orchards that are old, neglected, and densely planted. IPM strategy yy Prune, avoid high-density planting, and regulate flushes by reducing input. yy Verticillium lecanii, Beauveria bassiana, Coccinellid beetles, spiders, reduviid keep the hopper population in check. Damage on mango by hoppers Indian Horticulture 42 yy Spraying of Lamda cyhalothrin 0.0025% in mango orchards during the off-season (November), especially on the trunks. yy Integrating chemical insecticides with neem products depending on hopper density. The first spray should be given at early panicle emergence with the following. (i) At high hopper density (>4 hoppers/panicle), spray Imidachloprid 0.005% or Lamda cyhalothrin 0.0025% Mealy bug (Drosicha mangiferae) It is a serious pest that plays havoc on mango trees. The sap is sucked by nymphs and adults, lowering the plant’s vitality. Honeydew is produced by them, which promotes the growth of sooty mold. After copulation, the female crawls down the tree in April-May to deposit eggs in great numbers covered with white egg sacs in the crevices in the soil. Until November or December, the eggs are in the diapause stage in the soil.