8% higher mean grain yield than clipping the foliage twice at 45 and 75 DAT with same level of nitrogen. Effect of Azotobactor on nitrogen economy in maize: A trial was conducted at KVK Kapurthala, Punjab, to evaluate the effect of Azotobactor on nitrogen economy in maize during 2001–02. The seed treatment with Azotobactor slightly increased the grain yield (0.085 tonnes/ha) cob length (1.1 cm) and plant height (32 mm). At recommended level of N, Azotobactor application increased the grain yield by 0.06 tonnes/ha, whereas with Azotobactor + ¾ recommended N treatment, the grain yield was 3.80 tonnes/ha. Increasing productivity of tomato by minimizing the incidence of leaf curl virus disease in Sunderbans: Tomato leaf curl virus (TLCV) is a serious problem in cultivation of hybrid tomato in upland particularly irrigated situation of Sunderbans. Incidence of leaf-curl disease in tomato may sometimes affect 30–90% of yield. The trials were conducted by the KVK at Nimpith covering 50 farmers in 16 villages of 6 blocks, viz. Canning-II, Mathurapur I and II, Joynagar I and II and Kultali with four leaf-curl tolerant varieties, viz. Avinash-2 (commercial), Ramakrishna (KVK developed), Sarada (KVK developed) and Vivekananda (KVK developed). The yield of KVK developed hybrid varieties are almost at par with the commercial hybrid. Leaf colour chart based nitrogen management in paddy: On-farm trials were conducted in Kaithal, Haryana, at five locations to introduce and promote application of nitrogen based on Leaf Colour Chart (LCC) in paddy (HKR 126) during kharif 2001. The application of nitrogen based on LCC with recommended plant population gave an average highest grain yield 5.91 tonnes/ha which was 7.7% more than the application of nitrogen at recommended level followed by the treatment of nitrogen based on LCC. Similarly, trial was conducted on LCC based nitrogen management in paddy (HKR 126) at KVK farm. The highest yield of paddy (5.4 tonnes/ha) was obtained under LCC based N management @ 30 kg/ha compared with basal application of N @ 20 kg/ha. Monitoring Mechanism The Project is monitored through 8 Zonal Co-ordinating Units, located at Ludhiana (Zone I), Calcutta (Zone II), Shillong (Zone III), Kanpur (Zone IV), Hyderabad (Zone V), Jodhpur (Zone VI), Jabalpur (Zone VII), and Bangalore (Zone VIII). The Zonal Units monitor the frontline extension programmes by organizing Zonal- and State-level Workshop, Scientific Advisory Committee Meeting and Visits. During the year, eight Zonal Workshops were organized with the participation of the Incharges of all the KVKs to review the work done during the year and formulation of action plan for the next year. Similarly, 32 State-level Workshops were organized in order to review the frontline demonstrations on oilseeds and pulses. To upgrade the knowledge and skills of KVK staff, 15 workshops were organized under HRD programme. TRAINERS’ TRAINING CENTRES (TTCS) There are eight Trainers’ Training Centres.