 Heuristic approach could efficiently represent and retain the diversity compared to core collection obtained by clustering. For better utilization of cashew germplasm resources, a Decision Support System (DSS) has been developed to host data on 478 accessions with 68 characters. The genotypes (1 each) of date palm and grapefruit (1 each), acid lime (11), mandarin (8), sweet oranges (11), different species of Citrus rootstocks (17) and guava (5) were added to field genebank. Diversity rich areas of Gujarat and Rajasthan were surveyed and genotypes of guava (25), lime (27) and custard apple (22) were identified on the basis of desirable horticultural traits. Genotypes of these different fruit crops were evaluated for morphological, yield and yield-attributing characteristics. Besides bud wood of 10 elite ber accessions were collected from Haryana followed by budding for evaluation. Mushrooms: A total of 27 mushroom specimens were collected from forests of Himachal Pradesh and Tripura, and 21 were identified up to genus level. Pure tissue cultures of 21 mushroom specimens were obtained and deposited in the genebank including Lepista sp., Leucocoprinus sp., Gymnopilus sp., Laccaria sp., Macrolepiota sp. and Austroboletus sp. Orchids: A total of 32 germplasms were registerd and IC number were allotted. A total of 20 rare orchid species were collected from the Himalayan Ecosystem, of these, six species were identified as Chiloschista parishii, Cymbidium cochleare, Dendrobium praecinctum, Dendrobium nanum, Dendrobium ruckeri and Taeniophyllum retrospiculatum. Native orchid species (10) of genus Paphiopedilum were characterized using ISSR markers. Livestock Registration of new breeds of livestock and poultry: Nine new populations of livestock and poultry have been registered as breeds, which include one breed of cattle, two breeds each of goat and sheep, three breeds of pig, and one breed of chicken. With these new additions, the total number of registered indigenous breeds now in the country is 160, which includes 40 for cattle, 13 for buffalo, 26 for goat, 42 for sheep, 6 for horses and ponies, 9 for camel, 6 for pig, 1 for donkey and 17 for chicken. Phenotypic characterization Cattle of Sikkim, Meghalaya and Nagaland states: The indigenous cattle of the NE region were characterized to record phenotypic variability available in indigenous cattle of the region. Animals of different coat colour, i.e. brown, grey and black were seen in different states but majority of them were of brown colour except Siri in Sikkim. Birth weight ranges from 10-20 kg, whereas adult body weight ranges from 150 to 250 kg in cows and 200 to 350 kg in bull/bullocks. Daily milk yield ranges from 1.0 to 5.0 kg, while Siri cattle produces milk up to 10 kg/day. The age at first calving, lactation length, service period, dry period and calving interval ranges from 28 to 42 months, 150 to 210 days, 90 to 120 days, 120 to 180 days and 15-20 months, respectively.