 Besides, it has a carrying capacity of 50 live birds. Further, the machine also has a by-product collection system under chilling condition thereby promoting effective utilization of by-product and reduced environmental nuisance. All the units in the machine are operated on 12 V DC current supplied using 4 lithium ion re- chargeable battery fitted with the rickshaw. The unit will be a suitable alternative for small poultry vendors/ butchers in cities and towns and will also add in are embedded in the outer body, which is made of Acrylonitrile Butadiene Styrene (ABS) with the help of 3D printing. Further, an android mobile application was developed to record and analyze the real time data for assessing the ageing of rice as a graphical user interface (GUI). The developed instrument is used for assessing the ageing of rice. The capacity of the machine is 10–12 samples per hour. The cost of developed sensor is ` 3,000 for mass production. Portable solar dryer for hill: The capacity of dryer is 25–30 kg with lower operational cost because it is operated with solar powered exhaust fan to remove moistened air. Drying was accomplished in 2–3 days to final moisture of 5–8% (WB). It was installed at two farmers’ field and 10 nos. were supplied to farmers through TSP. In the dryer 15–20ºC higher temperature can be achieved than ambient conditions (25–30ºC). The cost of dryer is ` 15,000. POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 96 Portable ozone based fruits and vegetable washer- cum-purifier (Ozo-C): During the COVID-19 pandemic as people bring home fruits, vegetable, mutton and fish, the fear of contracting corona virus from the same also looms large. To ensure food safety, after buying such commodities from the vendors and bringing home a suitable gadget with standard protocol is urgently required to ensure complete safety of commodities at home. ICAR-CIPHET, Ludhiana, has developed a portable fruits and vegetable washer-cum-purifier named Ozo- C based on Ozone technology. The portable system is an excellent ozonator which removes pesticides, bacteria, viruses and harmful chemical from the surface of fruits and vegetable, sea food and meat, making them hygienic. The system works on principle of silent corona discharge method. It uses electric discharge to produce ozone by splitting the normal oxygen molecules in the air into single atoms. These atoms recombine with air (i.e. O2) to form ozone (O3). The unit cost of the device is approximately ` 3,500. This compact device may find a place in every kitchen, hotels, small scale fruit vegetable processors and vendors where it can play a vital role in reducing the risk of infection especially during this pandemic period. The technology has been transferred to two firms, M/s Siri Labs, Ongole and M/s CRD Invotech, Maharashtra. of gram-negative bacteria. The influence of the treatment parameter, i.e. the exposure duration was investigated on E. coli.