7 per cent more training programmes for Technical and Skilled Support Staff, respectively The Online Training Management Information System (TMIS) developed and implemented for effective and efficient training management in ICAR. This has helped in achieving paperless training management of about 17,100 employees. The study conducted on the effectiveness of trainings revealed medium effectiveness of training (PTEI 3.86). Significant behavioural changes were observed in the participants after the trainings. The ICAR initiatives on HRM was recognized in the Conference of Heads of Administrative Training Institutes (ATIs) and Central Training Institutes DARE-ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2014-2021 51 (CTIs) organized by DoPT, on 4 December, 2017 at New Delhi. The ICAR learning facilitated a decision for formulating the training programmes for the categories who are never exposed to training to develop Knowledge, Skills and Attitude. O. ICAR-State Interface The functioning of 8 Regional Committees strengthened with clearly defined action points along with timelines for each state, based on their needs, and actions taken according to the timeline. Agricultural Technology Application Research Institutes (ATARIs) were increased to 11 from 8 to sharpen the linkages in extension services with the the State Department of Agriculture and other line departments. Strategic Action Plan for Doubling of Farmers’ Income was prepared for all the States of the country through duly constituted State Level Coordination Committees, which were provided to the States for implementation Provided technical inputs for the Kharif and Rabi campaigns organized by Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers’ Welfare, Govt. of India; documented technological information disseminated particularly about the newly released varieties to be immediately promoted by the States. Hon’ble Agriculture Minister and MoS (A) in Vice Chancellor Conference DARE-ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2014-2021 52 For the first time, one of its kind brainstorming sessions on ‘Technological Innovations and Strategies for Farmers’ was organized on 13 July for Rajasthan farmers and 26-27 August 2019 for MP and Chhattisgarh farmers including the Padma Awardee farmers and innovative/ progressive farmers representing all the districts of the three States. Hon’ble Union Minister for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Shri Narendra Singh Tomar and MoS Shri Kailsah Choudhary addressed the participants and provided guidance. P. Reforms in DARE/ICAR Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board (ASRB) detached from ICAR, restructured and made functional as an attached office of Department of Agricultural Research & Education (DARE) with several other changes for greater efficiency and transparency. An online system for inter-institutional transfer of Scientific positions implemented. Similarly criteria based posting of newly recruited scientists in online format was operationalized successfully.