 Selected villages are dominated by red loamy, red sand loamy, saline, and black soils. Paddy, maize, cotton, red gram, and vegetables are major crops cultivated in the area. Soil erosion leads to nutrient loss, which ultimately reduces agri­ culture productivity and yield. Therefore, farmers traditionally practice SWC measures to control their perceived level of soil erosion (Kumar et al., 2015). Field level observations in the study area reveal that farmers adopt contour ploughing, grass bunds, soil bunds, drainage ditches, silt application (i.e., collected from tanks) and plantations (example, woody vegetation) to prevent soil erosion. 3.2. Data sampling The data used in the study came from household and plot level 2 More details on the study area and data collection process are provided in (Peddi, Dayakar and Kavi Kumar, 2021) 3 Mandals are administrative subdivision of district in a state. 4 Under IWMP program numerous activities are undertaken to restore the ecological balance by harnessing, conserving, and developing degraded natural sources such as soil, vegetation cover and water. P. Dayakar and K.S. Kavi Kumar Land Use Policy 137 (2024) 107011 3 surveys of around 400 farmers in two mandals of Siddipet district in Telangana. The survey was conducted during January-March 2018. The data showed that the geographical and population characteristics differ across the villages. The number of households selected for survey in the villages is based on the proportion of households in each village to the aggregate number of households across all the selected villages. Thus, the total number of sampled households from the villages ranged be­ tween 13 and 67. In each village the list of households has been compiled from revenue and agricultural departmental data sets. Once the number of households was determined, the specific survey house­ holds were selected based on simple random sampling. The final sample consists of 206 households from the IWMP-covered villages, and 197 households from non-IWMP villages. 4. Methodological framework Farmers’ decision to adopt SWC measures can be assessed using a random utility framework followed in earlier studies (e.g., 1; Kassie et al., 2015; Zheng et al., 2021). The “fundamental problem of causal inference is that it is not possible to observe each individual having received the treatment and not having received the treatment from the observational data, and only one of the two potential outcomes is observed at any given time”. The randomized control trails (RCT) approach is the best suited framework for causal inference analysis, in which SWC measures are assigned randomly to a group of farmers while a control group of farmers cultivate without those specific interventions. Despite being the most appropriate approach, RCT is rarely imple­ mented in practice in the context of SWC practices.