 Organic Kiwi Vine Organic Large Cardamom November–December 2023 13 Chilli (Capsicum spp.) is commonly cultivated in warm to hot and humid climates in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura. The chilli species viz., C. annum L. var. avicular, C. annum L. var. grossum, C. annum L. var longum, C. chinense, C. eximium, C. frutescens, C. minimum, and C. pubescens occur in this region. Bhut jolokia/King chilli is the world’s most pungent chilli (over one million SHU) originated in Northeast India, particularly in Nagaland and is cultivated throughout the region. Cucurbits, one of the biggest collections of vegetable crops is extensively grown in all the states of this region. 15 genera of this group of vegetables are found in this region and many of them are lesser known. Kakrol (Momordica cochinchinesis) and Kartoli (M. dioica) are widely spread in Assam, Garo hills of Meghalaya and the Sikkim Himalayas. A wide range of indigenous leafy vegetables akin Amaranths namely, Amaranthus viridis, A. lividus, A. retroflexus and A. spinosus, puroi sag (Basella rubra and B. alba), Rumex rasicarius, Chenopodium album and Ipomea reptans are cultivated in Northeast India. Tuber and rhizomatous crops viz., Ipomea batatus, Colocasia esculenta, Amorphophalous spp., Dioscorea spp. Ginger and turmeric along with various other spice crops also reveal substantial diversity in all the Northeast states. Flowers, Bamboo, Medicinal and Aromatic Crops Orchids are synonymous with the Northeast region which is recognized for its tremendous diversity. Nearly 17,000 species of orchids have been recorded in the world, of which about 1,250 are found in India and about 700 species in the NER. Arunachal Pradesh hosts around 620 species, Sikkim 523 species and Meghalaya 324 species. The indigenous species of orchids with ornamental value and market potential generally belong to the genera Aerides, Anachnantha, Arundina, Cymbidium, Dendrobium, Paphiopedillium, Phaius, Renanthera, Phycostyllus and Vanda etc. Among the many species Calanthe masuca, Cymbidium spp., Dendrobium nobile, Phaius tankervilliae, Vanda spp., Phalenopsis spp. etc. are promising as cut flowers. Bamboo is an important crop of the Northeast and it plays a pivotal role in the livelihood of the ethnic people. Approximately 50% of bamboo species in India are documented from the Northeast region; nearly 12 species are rare and endangered. Arunachal Pradesh has 12 genera and 30 species, 8 genera and 30 species of bamboo are recorded in Sikkim, a total of 30 species under 14 genera are reported in Meghalaya, about 71 bamboo species in Nagaland, Mizoram has 35 species and so on. The ethnic communities in Northeast India are knowledgeable of the wild plants possessing medicinal values. The tribal people use these plants to treat various ailments.