 Information on basic strategies and tactics of different methods of management including mass production of biocontrol agents, IPM policy and pesticide registration is provided in comprehensive form. The Handbook of Integrated Pest Management comprises 82 chapters which are well written in lucid language with crispy sentences by the renowned scientists. The role of IPM is elucidated with different pests like Trichogramma, Bacillus thuringiensis, Nomuraea rileyi etc. and agricultural crops like rice, wheat, maize, sorghum, pearl millet, pulses, soybean, rapeseed mustard, groundnut, minor-oilseed crops, sugarcane, cotton, jute and mesta, potato, vegetable crops, fruits, grapes, citrus, banana, pomegranate, coconut etc. This Handbook will provide information of available useful technologies to educate on how to reduce or judiciously use chemical pesticides, safeguard ourselves from chronic poisoning, save the National environment while also reducing input costs and raise farmers’ income. This compilation will be useful to teachers, students, trainers, line-department personnel and policy makers. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-x + 768 • Price : ` 1500 • Postage : ` 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-179-6 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com HANDBOOK OF Integrated Pest Management Indian Farming 19 May 2023 Good Horticultural Practices (GHP) for effective resource conservation and productivity in vegetables A G K Reddy*, G Nirmala, P K Pankaj, B Sanjeeva Reddy, Josily Samuel and K Ravi Shankar ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Santoshnagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 059 Good Horticultural Practices (GHP) holds a promising option for improving profitability and sustainability in dryland region of India. Good Horticultural Practices was initiated as one of the interventions under Farmers FIRST Project (FFP) for improving the sustainability and profitability of agriculture in Pudur Mandal, Vikarabad district, Telangana. The four major technologies selected under this intervention were a) plastic mulching with drip irrigation schedules, b) pest control in vegetables, c) vegetable nursery and d) staking in creepers. Results to be added after this in tomato polythene mulching remarkably improved the plant biomass, earliness and registered 94.7% higher dry matter over unmulched control. Maximum fruit yield (3.66 kg/plant) was recorded with polythene mulch. Nursery is convenient to look and after the baby seedlings, it is possible to provide favourable growth conditions. In tomato crop staking yields 38.1 t/ha and pruning yields 31.7 t/ha is better than control yield 30.4 t/ha.