 Measures to check late blight In the region, late blight attacks the potato crop every year and therefore, prophylactic sprays of contact fungicide-Mancozeb @ 800g/acre were recommended from 2nd week of December 2020 onwards with repetitions at 8-10 days intervals. Farmer gave only two sprays of Mancozeb, first on 11th December (in time) and second on 28th December (very late). Late blight was noticed on 10th January 2021 which probably appeared a day or two earlier. Once late blight has appeared, only systemic fungicide can check further spread. Therefore, Moximate (Cymoxanil 8% + Mancozeb 64%) @ one kg /acre was sprayed on 11th January and by that time more foliage were blighted. Late blight damage / loss in tubers were also found at the time of harvesting in that part of the field. It was more in Kufri Pukhraj as compared to Kufri Jyoti. No use of insecticides Being ware crop, no insecticides were applied. Some damage was caused by cutworms. Cracking in Kufri Jyoti tubers In Kufri Jyoti, with the increase in tuber size, some cracking was noticed. Therefore, foliage of Kufri Jyoti was Indian Horticulture 44 cut manually with sickles on 18th January to stop further increase in tuber size. Kufri Pukhraj was left as such and the foliage dried itself at maturity. Harvesting, losses and reasons Pre-harvesting test was done on 2nd February 2021 to check the tuber skin maturity. Harvesting was done manually on 3rd and 4th February 2021. Incidence of tuber-borne diseases, pest injury, etc. if any was recorded. Common scab, black scurf, russetting on tubers, red ants, Potato tuber moths, beetles, etc. were not found. Tuber rots due to late blight / soft rot, cutworm injury and rodent damage were serious problems causing heavy losses. Variety Percent losses by weight due to Total Cut-cracks Rots Rodent Cutworms Kufri Pukhraj 12.0 4.3 4.2 1.0 21.6 Kufri Jyoti 15.6 3.7 4.1 1.4 24.8 Average 13.4 4.1 4.1 1.2 22.8 As seen in above table, major losses were due to cut- cracks in tubers. In Kufri Pukhraj, it was only cuts (and not cracks) damaged during manual harvesting as the size of the tubers was very big. It can be reduced to minimum by taking extra care while harvesting. However, it is not the complete loss as all the partially cut tubers are used though the market value of such produce is lowered. Among the rots (4.3%), it was mainly the tubers affected by late blight which could have been avoided if prophylactic spray schedule of contact fungicide was followed sincerely. To check the rodent damage (4.2%), collective efforts of all the farmers of the area were required. Cutworm damage was 1.0% but being ware crop, no insecticide was applied to control cutworms. However, like cut tubers, such partially damaged tubers by cutworms or even rodents are used/ sold at lower market price. In case of Kufri Jyoti, cut-crack losses were very high (15.6%). Of which major losses were due to cracking. In Kufri Jyoti, cracking is a varietal character.