 Had you visited seed production plot ofBN Bt? Visited seed production plots of BN Bt at ARS, Mundgod and ARS Soundalaga once along with Dr. 1. S Katageri and Mr. Eshanna. 4. Had you observed any segregation for petal colour or any other morphological trait in the seed production plot? I have not observed. 5. What was the performance ofBN Bt in seed production plot? General appearance was good. 6. Was there any team for monitoring ofseed production ofBN Bt? No. 7. Did any team member(s) give you information about segregation? No. 8. Did Dr Katageri visit seed production plot? Ifso, how many times (approximate)? Did he observed variation? If so, what remedial measure taken to remove any off-types? Visited Seed Production plots, but I do not know how many times. 9. In your opinion whJl seed production ofBN Bt was suspended? I do not know. 43 - - - - - - Replies by Dr HL Nadaf, Special Officer (Seeds) to the questions raised by Dr.Baldev Singh Dhillon on Bt-cotton . 1. Were you involved in seed production of 'BN Bt' and 'Bt NHH 44'? In the capacity of Special Officer ( Seeds), I facilitated in seed production of BN-Bt and Bt NHH44. 2. Who actually carried out seed production of BN Bt and Bt NHH 44? From Seed Unit, Dr.Ravi Hunje co-ordinated the seed production of BN-Bt & BT NHH44 under the supervision of concerned cotton scientists. 3. What was the source ofseed to carry out seed production of BN Bt during 2008? The source of Seed for seed production of BN-Bt during 2008 was from the concerned Cotton Scientist, ARS, Dharwad. 4. Was there any problem of variation in two seed production plots of BN Bt, i.e., seed production ofvariety BN Bt and that of its plots sown as parent ofBt NHH 44? I am not aware of such variations in seed production plots of BN-Bt and parent of Bt NHH44. 5. Was there any segregation for petal colour? I am not aware of the segregation for petal colour. 6. Did you observe or anyone inform you about the segregation for petal colour or any other character in seed production plots? I did not observe and no one informed me about the segregation for petal colour or any other character in seed production plots 7. Did monitoring team(s) visit the seed production plots ofBN Bt? The cotton scientists only monitored the seed production plots ofBN- Bt. 8. Did Dr Katageri visit seed production plot? If so, how many times (approximate)? Did he observed variation? If so, what remedial measure taken to remove any off- types? Dr.I.S.Katageri visited the seed production plots along with his fellow colloquies 3-4 times. Few off type plants were observed by them which were removed at the time of their visits. 44- 9. Which class ofseed ofBN Bt was produced during 2oo8? Since it was only pre-release multiplication it was truthful seed production during 2008. 10. Were you satisfied with the yield potential of BN Bt? The crop stand and boll bearing was normal but I left the Seed Unit after my transfer from there before harvest of the crop. 11.