 Fertigation, which combines water and fertilizer application through irrigation, is another resource-saving strategy made possible by micro-irrigation. Fertigation results in a balanced nutrient application, a 7–42% reduction in fertilizer requirements (saving the farmer money), greater nutrient uptake, nutrient usage efficiency and also environmental protection. It is quite apparent that in the present scenario, vertical expansion of agricultural lands is not possible. As a result, we must concentrate on degraded wastelands to boost yield and productivity. This can be made possible through micro-irrigation. The schemes on micro-irrigation The Government of India has been executing the Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CCS) on Micro- irrigation since January 2006. In June 2010, the scheme was up- scaled to National Mission on Micro Irrigation (NMMI), which continued till the year 2013–14. 1st April 2014, NMMI was subsumed under National Mission on Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) and implemented under “On-Farm Water Management” (OFWM). 1st July 2015, the scheme has been subsumed under PMKSY and implemented as the ‘Per Drop More Crop’ component of PMKSY. Advantages of micro-irrigation • Micro-irrigation ensures a 50– 90% water use efficiency. • In comparison to flood irrigation, water savings range from 30–50%, with an average of 32.3%. • There is a significant reduction in electricity use. • The use of micro-irrigation saves money spent on fertilizers. • Increase in average fruit and vegetable yield. • It boosts the revenue of farmers in general. Challenges to the adoption of micro- irrigation • Inadequate water supply at the farm level. • Inadequate attention to micro- irrigation technology on a national scale. • It has a high installation and maintenance cost, as well as difficult procedures for redeeming government subsidies for micro-irrigation installation. • Slower adoption of the Drip Irrigation Method (DMI). • Subsidy reimbursement delays. • Farmers frequently face difficulties in acquiring the financial aid they want. Energy is the most important input for an irrigation system, and for large irrigation systems, electricity is a viable supply that is still out of reach for most farmers. According to data from the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare (MoA&FW), the country’s net irrigated area is 68.6 Million ha. Micro-irrigation covers 12.9 Million ha of agricultural area, with drip irrigation covering 6.11 Million ha and sprinkler irrigation covering 6.79 Million ha. This means that just 19% of the country’s total irrigated acreage is under micro-irrigation Drip irrigation in maize Drip irrigation in wheat Drip irrigation system Indian Farming 20 February 2023 (2005–06 to 2020–21).