 Organized by the University, this programme is broadcasted on the BAU, Sabour YouTube channel twice a month. Farmers nationwide can participate in real-time discussions on scheduled horticultural topics and ask questions via chat or comments. The programme facilitates knowledge exchange on best practices for fruits, vegetables, medicinal plants, and ornamental crops. It covers crucial areas such as pest and disease control, soil health, irrigation, and organic farming techniques specific to horticultural crops. As an effective ICT-based tool, it connects research with field applications, enabling farmers to receive timely Table 1. Agromet advisory services provided by BAU, Sabour Year Agromet advisory Agromet advisory disseminated among the farmers Bulletins generated (Nos.) SMS through m-Kisan Portal (Lakhs) SMS-through WhatsApp groups (Lakhs) 2021-22 208 17.24 2.65 2022-23 208 24.80 4.64 2023-24 208 24.80 8.82 Digital initiatives of BAU, Sabour Inauguration of Sawal Jawab programme in gracious presence of State Minister, Vice Chancellor and MP Indian Horticulture 60 advice, make informed decisions, and enhance their horticultural practices. Community radio for horticultural updates: The university leverages community radio to broadcast daily programme on horticultural best practices, pest management strategies and weather forecasts. This initiative ensures that farmers in remote areas without internet access can also stay updated on essential farming information, thus bridging the digital divide in rural communities. Over the past three years, a total of 75 radio programmes have been broadcasted specifically for horticulture farmers. These programme provide valuable information on best practices, efficient pest management, crop care, and market updates, making essential knowledge accessible even in the remote areas without internet access. Krishi Gyan Vahan (Mobile Knowledge Vehicle): It is a mobile knowledge vehicle equipped with multimedia content on farm science and technology, which serves as a critical tool for technology dissemination in the domain of Horticulture. Launched by the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Bihar, this vehicle brings expert guidance directly to farmer’s doorsteps. In addition to showcasing audio-visual materials, the Gyan Vahan is equipped for onsite soil testing, offering immediate soil health analysis and issuing soil health cards to horticultural farmers. By visiting remote villages, it significantly reduces the need for farmers to travel to distant testing facilities. Although the Gyan Vahan has reached large numbers of farmers since its commencement. It has visited more than 87 cities across 52 blocks within 12 districts and it has managed to benefit more than 6,746 farmers in the last quarter. One an average it reached 25,000 farmers/per annum for the last three years. BAU YouTube channel for getting technical inputs on agriculture subject in general and horticulture in specific.