 It was observed that all cultures treated nanoformulations proliferated well with 70 to 85% confluency except that for DMSO suggesting biocompatability and non-cytotoxicity of the nanoformulations, whereas DMSO (known for its toxicity) treated cells exhibited 15% confluency indicating detrimental effects on cells. Cholesterol-loaded cyclodextrins (CLC) on sperm motility: Cryopreservation process induces alteration in the temperature and causes membrane alteration by lipid loss and lipid/protein rearrangements within the sperm membrane. Addition of CLC (1 to 2 mg/120×106 spermtaozoa) significantly improved cholesterol: phospholipid ratio of cryopreserved spermatozoa by reducing the total antioxidant capacity and oxidative stress thus resulting in better semen freezability as revealed by higher progressive motility, HOS response, livability, acrosomal integrity and DNA integrity of spermatozoa. Diagnostic Laboratories and commercialized for transformation into ready to use kit. NRCE developed recombinant p26 protein-based ELISA. This technology will provide sustainable and homogeneous source of antigen and harmonized protocol for ensuring regular surveillance of EIA. The kit is highly economical as compared to imported kit. Recombinant-protein-based iELISA for JEV antibodies: Indirect ELISA was developed using JEV-E protein immunodominant epitope of 444 bp expressed in E. coli (BL 21 (DE3)) cells using pET 32a vector, for detection of JEV specific antibodies in horse and pig. The recombinant protein was found to be stable for one year at –2°C. The ELISA was transformed to a diagnostic kit for detection of JEV antibodies in equines. Poultry Complete genome analysis of chicken astroviruses: The genome analysis revealed that the complete genome is 7.5 kb in length and both the isolates were closely related to an isolate previously reported from India (CAstV/INDIA/ANAND/2016). These isolates have a nucleotide identity ranging from 97.1 to 97.3% with CAstV reported from Anand, Gujarat and 86.1 to 92.0% with CAstV isolates reported from other countries. The high sequence similarity of the present isolates with CAstV previously reported from the country indicated the limited sequence divergence of CAstV in the country. Hence, development of a vaccine using a CAstV strain currently circulating in the country may give protection to birds against CAstV infection and both genetically characterized isolates have the potential to be developed as candidate vaccine virus. Foot and Mouth Disease Epidemiology: Almost 56% of the outbreaks (391) of FMD, recorded in the country during the period, were in the southern region of the country. There were no outbreaks in Andhra Pradesh, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh. The serotype O continued to be the most predominant one and was responsible for 99% of the outbreaks. The serotype Asia1 was recorded in West Bengal and Assam. After a period of almost three years, serotype A was recorded in the country in Maharashtra.