 Activities under Schedule Cast Sub Plan Fifty-eight Agricultural Universities (AUs) were awarded under NAHEP, wherein 18AUs come under IDP, 16 AUs under CAAST and 24 AUs under IG in Component 1. Besides 3 ICAR institutes, i.e. ICAR- Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute (IASRI), ICAR-National Institute of Agricultural Economics and Policy Research (NIAP) and ICAR-National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM) have been implementing Component 2. Institutional Development Plan (IDP): During last one year of implementation, call 1 and 2 awarded IDPs comprising 14 AUs have made significant ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 122 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT developments. IDP financed activities majorly focused on teaching and research infrastructure development, faculty development and training, networking and industry collaboration, vocational training, students’ job placement, own revenue generation. scientific entrepreneurship of students and enhance research effectiveness. Innovation Grants: IG projects were awarded to select participating AUs to attain accreditation; 24 sub- projects were awarded under this component. Key IG activities included national level trainings for faculty upgradation; master and PhD sandwich programs; alumni linkages; industry seminars and professional workshops; e- enabled learning activities, etc. 7 AUs under the IG attained ICAR accreditation due to NAHEP support and interventions, additional 4 AUs submitted the Self Study Reports (SSR) to ICAR-Education Division to attain the accreditation at the earliest in FY 20–21. 255 students and 55 faculties underwent international level trainings in reputed foreign universities, and more than 1,000 national level workshops/ seminars was conducted for UG level students under IDP. Among these trainings and workshops, high impetus was laid on enhancing employability and building entrepreneurship capabilities of agri students, so that the ripple effect of program in society could be created. Moreover, industry visits and Skill development programs also were organized majorly to cater the current market needs and enable the students to emerge as Job Creators rather than Job Seekers. Centres for Advanced Agricultural Science and Technology (CAAST): Under CAAST component, 16 sub-projects were awarded to AUs, spread across 11 states of the country. The major activities undertaken by AUs under CAAST component included strengthening of teaching and research infrastructure; distinguished lecture series/ special lectures to bring about much needed vibrancy in the academic atmosphere and inspire students and faculty to perform better; national and international trainings for students, faculty and research scholars; collaboration with private sector related to the specialized areas to develop market- oriented programs, etc.