 Strengthening value chain; viii. Use of ICT in marketing; ix. Creation of better transportation facilities with cool chain van at Block level. x. Creation of direct linkages with food processing industries for better prices. xi. Establishment of strong linkages with various stake holders to furnish information on crop produce and surplus. xii. Establishment of procurement and collection centre at panchayat level for agricultural surplus with proper labelling. xiii. Installation of mini grading machines at village level. xiv. Establishment of cold room in different clusters. Strategy 3: Policy support i. Amendment of APMC ii. Increasing institutional support by providing subsidises and incentives to small and marginal farmers. iii. Labelling of organic inputs and certification mechanism for various crops. iv. Establishment of mandatory meteorological/observatory at block level to get first hand information of climatic changes. v. Land holding ownership, leasing policy; vi. Water management policy; vii. Implementation of centrally sponsored schemes without delay. viii. Minimum Support Price based on cost of production and profit margin; ix. Forewarning about natural calamities to the farmers; x. Immediate relief to farmers in case of natural calamities; xi. Training and sensitization to the farmers to adopt latest technique; xii. Implementation of Soil Health Card Scheme in each block. xiii. Promotion of secondary agriculture xiv. Implementation of schemes like National Livestock Mission in the whole state and redrafting of National Mission on Protein Supplements. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 224 Strategy 4: Infrastructural Development i. Strengthen R&D activities in farm Universities/Institutions for providing site-specific technical support to all farm developmental agencies operating in the State. ii. Road connectivity & provision of uninterrupted power supply; iii. Strengthening infrastructure based on PPP mode, such as go-downs, cold storage etc. iv. Creation of modern infrastructure for preservation and processing of agri produces, establishment of grading, packing, storage and processing facilities to reduce post harvest losses and value addition of fruits and vegetables in districts like Pulwama, Shopian, Baramulla and Budgam. Strategy 5 : HRD and Extension i. Skill development training: This one of the most important flagship programmers of Govt. of India (Kaushal Vikas Se Krishi Vikas) which emphasizes that farmer’s income can be enhanced by imparting skill development training in agriculture. Due to its importance Agriculture skill Council of India (ASCI) was established. ii. Use of ICT in extension: It is essential for rapid dissemination of customized information to the farmers for increasing the rate of adoption of innovations. iii. Farmers to farmer extension (F2FE): Farmers seek advice and information related to agriculture from fellow farmers.