 With this commitment that coming years will see much dynamism and greater dedication of ICAR towards the development of agriculture sector, I present the achievements of ICAR in 2019–2020 to the policy planners, researchers and all stakeholders. I do hope that the research results presented here will provide the much needed impetus to agricultural development in the country. (T Mohapatra) Secretary Department of Agricultural Research and Education and Director General Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi 2. Soil and Water Productivity Land use planning for aspirational districts: Land Resource Inventory (LRI) on 1:10,000 scale was prepared for 27 aspirational districts of India to workout block level land use planning. Alternative crops and cropping pattern were suggested for Barpeta, Darrang, Dhubri, Goalpara, Baksa districts of Assam; Bahraich, Balrampur, Chitrakoot, Shrawasti, Sonbhadra districts of Uttar Pradesh; Araria, Begusarai, Katihar, Sitamarhi, Sheikhpura districts of Bihar; Kalahandi and Rayagarha district of Odisha; Sahibganj and Pakur district of Jharkhand; Nandurbar district of Maharashtra; Barwani, Damoh, Khandwa, Vidisha and Singroli districts of Madhya Pradesh; and Baran and Jaisalmer districts of Rajasthan. Also, alternative land use plan using LRI data and best management practices was suggested for Goa state; Charilam block of Sepahijala district, Tripura; Maynaguri block, Jalpaiguri district and Rajnagar block of Birbhum district, West Bengal; Baragaon block, Varanasi district, Uttar Pradesh; Nagrota Bagwan block of Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh; H D Kote, Mysuru district, Karnataka; Odhan block of Sirsa district Haryana; coastal region and Kultali block, 24 Paraganas (S) of West Bengal; and desert of Rajasthan. Potential crop zones delineated: Area/region specific efficient and remunerative crops and cropping sequences were delineated based on soils, landforms, rainfall, temperature, length of growing period and irrigability. Potential crop zoning involves development of land management units (LMUs), bio-physical suitability evaluation and linking of bio-physical suitable maps to Alternate land use plan for Dhubri district, Assam Alternate land use plan for Sheikhpura district, Bihar Agro-ecological region based land planning Agro-ecological region (AER) map of the country was developed with 20 units, based on the bio-climate and length of growing period (LGP) using physiography as the modifier of climate for sustainable agriculture. The agro-ecological units were further sub divided into agro- ecological sub-region (AESR) with 62 units based on bio-climate and length of growing period (LGP) using sub-physiography as the modifier. Agro-ecological sub-regions map of the country DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 11 DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 12 SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY the relative spread and productivity of reference crops and cropping sequences.