 As the procedure for admission of foreign student is cumbersome, it should be simplified in order to attract more and more students. He also invited attention of the house towards performance linked funding and permission to the AUs for collaboration with foreign organizations like CGIAR as the Council is already having collaboration with them. Dr. S.N. Puri, VC, CAU, Imphal pointed out that some of the Universities created later did not get the benefit of schemes of ZRS, CAU, Imphal being one of them may be considered for funding. He invited the attention on the issue of vocational training in NEH region as only 1% of the agriculture graduates remain in the villages to look after agriculture. Hence, through the vocational training, skilled manpower could be created to upscale the agriculture in the region. He was of the opinion that the persons involved in teaching UG courses may be included in development of course curricula for UG courses and the name of Deans’ Committee be changed accordingly. Dr. R.B. Lal, VC, SHIATS, Allahabad was of the opinion that the Council may formulate guidelines for AUs and industrial partnership. He requested that collaborations done by the AUs in the past may be approved. He suggested that a provision for appointing 25% teachers in the AUs from the ICAR central pool may be made in order to upscale the quality of teaching. Dr. K. Narayana Gowda, VC, UAS, Bengaluru felt that vocational education may be given more attention. He reiterated that extension system has not failed but has become ineffective due to lack of manpower. Dr. R.P. Singh, Secretary General, IAUA, New Delhi, referring to the MHRD’s announcement for establishing 150 CUs in the country, felt that some of the old AUs may be converted into CAUs. Dr. S.K. Sanyal, VC, BCKV, Nadia pointed out that modification of course curricula has covered a vast area in subjects, hence, provisions may be made for funding the comprehensive training to students. He requested that the programme on Niche Area of Excellence may be continued in the XII Plan and felt that an appropriate policy on strengthening ties with line departments from the Council may be of great help. Dr. A.M. Shekh, VC, AAU, Anand pointed out that the fellowship provided to foreign students is not enough to sustain themselves and hence, suggested to increase the same. Dr R.P. Singh, Director, Institute of Agricultural Sciences, BHU, Varanasi requested for ICAR support in opening of new Veterinary and Agricultural Engineering Colleges at its new campus at Mirjapur. He also suggested that the Council may create a dedicated unit for dealing with MoUs of AUs. Dr. K.R.Viswambharan, VC, KAU, Thrissur requested for financial support to carry out the students’exchange programme. He was in favour of more autonomy in courses evaluation in the AUs.