 ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 315 Each farm woman should develop a model nutritional garden in their farm or home premises to enhance nutritional status and nutrition security of farm family. Nutri-cereals should be added in cropping systems. Nutri-cereals like finger millet, fox tail millet, little millet, etc. can be grown in the Rabi season. Farm women should grow sorghum crop for hurda (tender roasted grains) on small area and sale it with attractive packing to earn extra income. Similar practice can be done in case of chickpea. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 316 gUJARAT Advisories for the crops sown/growing in kharif but will continue during Rabi: Paddy: To manage wilt disease in paddy, spray 1 g streptocycline + 10 g copper-based fungicide in 15 lit of water At 50 per cent flowering, spray 25 g mencozeb OR 10 g carbendazim in 10 lit. water to manage false smut disease Use sex pheromone traps @ 40 / ha to check infestation of stem borer Groundnut: In late sown / late maturing groundnut crop, spray 10 ml hexaconazole / 10 lit water to manage rust disease The crop at maturity showing pale yellow colour of leaves should be checked randomly for pod filling and maturity. If the grains are developing pink colour, harvest the crop by uprooting and keep for sun drying. After sun drying the harvested crop for 4 – 5 days when the moisture level in grains goes below 8 – 7 per cent, carry out threshing and separate the pods from plants Store the pods in clean gunny bags in dry condition. Castor (Irrigated): On attaining 70 DAS, top dressing with nitrogenous fertilizers should be done based on the region-specific recommendations and soil health card Inter cropping of chickpea can be adopted to increase economic return from unit area ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 317 Cotton: After monsoon, crop should be irrigated at regular interval depending upon the soil type, availability of irrigation water and method of irrigation. Drip irrigation is highly recommended to increase economic return and to save irrigation water Cotton plucked / collected in early morning should be sun dried during daytime and can be stored at clean place in dry condition Top dressing of fertilizers and micronutrients should be done at proper stage and as per the recommendations made in soil health card Cutting the terminal tip of plants (de topping) can be adopted between 75 and 100 DAS to check the excessive vegetative growth and to increase boll setting Pigeon pea: Ensure irrigation at flowering and pod filling stage to avoid yield loss due to moisture stress condition Pomegranate: To obtain fruits in “Hast bahar”, stop irrigation after monsoon. Give recommended doses of fertilizers in September – October with two light irrigations Ber (Ziziphus sp.): In irrigated condition, top dressing of recommended fertilizers in September month. Apply 4 – 6 irrigations between October and February.