 His thoughtful statements that “To forget how to dig the Earth and tend the soil is to forget ourselves” and “Earth provides us enough for our needs but not for our greed” are eternal in their impact on guiding the human philosophies and lives on this Earth. From the conservation point of view, the Dandi Satyagraha launched by him in 1930 was also about freeing humans from the greed, and about the need to use the natural resources cautiously. The burning issues of today about drought and water scarcity had been the concerns of Mahatma. The experiences of drought during the independence struggle at Kathiawar region in Gujarat led to Gandhiji creating awareness and appeal for afforestation on a large scale as an effective measure to contain water crisis. He emphasized the need for water harvesting in the prayer meeting in Delhi in 1947. His concerns about sanitation and Harijans (God’s people) acknowledged the need for conserving water resources, the services rendered by, and the critical contributions to the society at large. Gandhian principles give us the confidence that a better world is possible. Gandhiji stressed upon sustainable way of living and his idea of sustainable development has been duly recognized by the United Nations too. He was a big profounder of organic and natural farming based on permaculture or sustainable agricultural practices without dependence on external inputs. He emphasized that the farmers should stop using chemical fertilizers and begin to regenerate soil. To practice sustainable agriculture, he emphasized recycling of agricultural and food waste as animal feed and biogas production. Village can be sustainable with healthy food consumption and environment friendly agriculture which was concept of ecological regenerative agriculture (Annamalai 2015). Gandhiji always stressed upon simple living with limited use of the resources as per our needs. National Mission on Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) focuses mainly on conservation agriculture to make farm sector more productive, sustainable, remunerative and climate resilient by promoting location specific integrated/composite farming systems; soil and moisture conservation measures; comprehensive soil health management and mainstreaming rainfed technologies. Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana was launched on 1 July 2015 with the motto ‘Har Khet Ko Paani’ has led to augmentation of decentralized irrigation plan development, water sources development and efficient system of irrigation distribution network and farm level applications. There is immense cognizance of the adverse impacts of the indiscriminate use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides on human health and environment. Gandhiji exhorted to give up chemical fertilizers and pesticides and substitute them with bio-manures and bio-pesticides. The Government of India has been striving to promote organic farming under the Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana since 2015-16.