 Given the population size of our nation, we are a large consuming nation wherein there are established players to the extent that organic groceries and perishables can be made available at the doorstep in urban areas and certain cities like Hyderabad boast of “Walk-in Urban Retail Farm” that offer clean, fresh products under Controlled Environment Agriculture. Competition for new entrants and small holders is stiff and unless the produce is aggregated, marketing will be a tough ask. Novelty will be the key to the success of organic horticulture which may set the cash bells ringing. It will also be important to focus on the inherent strength of Northeast India. Some novel products are suggested below. 1. Specialty crops: Each state has one to few special farm produce, and to list some, Arunachal Pradesh – kiwifruit, apple, mandarin, Assam – tea, Bhut jolokia, ginger, citrus (Assam lemon, Kachai lemon), Manipur – Black rice (Chak-Hao), tree beans, Meghalaya – turmeric (Lakadong), Khasi mandarin, Mizoram – ginger, turmeric, Bird’s eye chilli, mandarin, Nagaland – King chilli, ginger, pineapple, Sikkim – large cardamom (now being cultivated in many NE states), ginger, turmeric, buckwheat, tea and Tripura – pineapple, cashew nut, Jack fruit, etc., which can be marketed as commodities. 2. Generate value added and processed products: Presently largely perishable high-volume exports made from the specialty crops Be processed in to low volume, high value products for export. 3. Introduce high value crops like saffron, hing (Ferula assafoetida), spices (vanilla, clove, thyme, rosemary, oregano, etc.), walnut, almond, Blueberry, microgreens, etc. 4. Produce biomolecules like vitamins, hormones, and secondary metabolites (e.g., terpenes, carotenoids, polyphenols, saponins, etc.), vanillin, curcumin, gingerol, allicin, antioxidants, flavonoids, anthocyanins, lycopenes, rutin, myrcenes, limonene, pinene, etc. 5. Extraction of high value oil from moringa, tea, clove bud, rose, large cardamom, cinnamon, Gaultheria fragrantissima, Ocimum spp., Assam lemon, Kachai lemon, etc. 6. Cultivate high value medicinal plants like Nardostachys jatamansi, Swertia chirata, Picrorhiza kurroa, Withania somnifera, Rauwolfia serpentina, Panax, giloy (Tinospora cordifolia), etc. CONCLUSION Northeast India is an identified hub for the expansion of organic farming. Limitless possibilities and potential exist towards the development of organic horticulture with a focus on niche crops. Empowering interested farmers with the best available organic technological options and policy support from the respective state governments will be vital for all further progress in this direction. Research-based technologies will augment the crop yields and bridge the yield gaps normally witnessed in organic farms.