 Keywords: phundka chhatu, mushroom In this practice, 7-8 matured leaves of cowpea (Cyamopsis tetragonoloba) plants and 50 g dried rice from Jagannath temple (fermented rice) are taken. Then this mixture (rice with cowpea leaves) is fed to the affected cattle. It is observed to give quick recovery of cattle from FMD. Keywords: cowpea, dried rice To cure foot disease in animals, people of village Hansa in district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh apply 50 g linseed oil in animals foot; This treatment is given twice daily to cure foot disease. Keywords: foot disease, linseed oil People of village Khai Khera of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh follow this treatment to cure foot weakness in animals. In this practice, 200 g onion is given to the animal twice daily. It cures foot weakness. Keywords: foot weakness, onion Cattle owners of village Mantal of Ahmedabad in Guajrat observe the problem of lameness in animals during winter. To overcome this problem, a mixture of green leaves of thore (Opuntia spp.) plant and soil (100 g each) is prepared, and ground to a Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Pramod Biswal, Lodhani, Parajang (Orissa) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Puran Lai, S/o Shri Het Ram, Hansa, Bhojipura, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Krishna, S/o Shri Ghasi Ram, Khai Khera, Rithoura, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator paste. This paste is boiled in water and lukewarm paste is smeared over the affected leg. This practice is followed once a day and continued up to 10-15 days for complete recovery. It is in vogue since time immemorial. Keywords: lameness, thore, soil Pasighat, (Arunaehal Pradesh) 791 102 3410 Cure of langdi disease (lameness) in animals with decoction of piludi shrub 3411 Jiski plant extract to control weakness in animals 3412 Recovery from weakness with extract of babool and jaggery In this disease the animals feel problem in moving from one place to another. Cattle owners boil 300 g green leaves of piludi {Salvadora persica) in 1 litre water. When the decoction remains 400 ml, it is allowed to cool and the lukewarm decoction is drenched orally to the suffering animal with a bamboo pipe. This dose is repeated thrice a day and continued up to 25-30 days for complete recovery. Keywords: langdi, lameness, piludi When an animal suffers from the problem of weakness and faints during standing position (called ghumadi in local language), the cattle owners of Mantal village of Ahmedabad (Gujarat) grind 200 g each of roots and leaves of jiski (Glycyerrhiza glabra) plant. About 400 ml water is added to this paste.