 Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years): ¾ DNA fingerprinting and micro‐satellite characterization and sequencing of mitochondrial DNA in HVRI region in different Indian goat breeds carried out. ¾ Black Bengal, Ganjam, Jamunapari, Marwari, Malabari, Sirohi, Sangamneri and Surti breeds improved in their natural habitat through production and distribution of elite breeding males under AICRP (2500 nos). ¾ Nutritional requirements of goats during different physiological stages determined. ¾ Fodder tree leaves and cultivated leguminous fodders based complete feeds for different categories of goats as mesh, pellets and blocks developed for economic goat production for meat and milk production. ¾ Developed economic milk replacers for pre‐weaning kids. ¾ Supplementation of 15 g common salt and 15 g mineral mixture daily in the feed of the adult goats improved protein and energy availability by about 16%. ¾ Subabool (Leucaena leucocephala) leaf meal can be incorporated upto 30% in the complete feeds for goats without any deleterious effect. ¾ A modified freezing protocol with increased post‐thaw motility developed for cryopreservation of buck semen. ¾ Technology perfected for collection and transfer of embryos for quick multiplication of superior goat germplasm. ¾ An eight cell invitro fertilized (IVF) embryo was transferred to a local goat and a healthy kid born from surrogate mother. This is recorded for the first time in the country. ¾ Housing requirements for different categories of goats determined and shelter management techniques standardized. ¾ Developed number of sets of feeders and waterers for different categories of goats for economic goat feeding. ¾ Goat rearing has been found profitable under semi intensive system of management with a net profit of Rs. 0.76 per rupee of input cost and net income of Rs. 1300 to 1800 per goat per annum. www.icar.org.in 11 2002 ‐ 2007 ¾ A comb based dot ELISA kit and PCR based test developed for diagnosis of Brucella meltitensis infection (communicable to human) in goats and sheep. Development of DNA based vaccine against Brucella melitensis is underway. ¾ Efficacy of Monensin treatment in experiment coccidiosis in kids studied. Monensin in premixed concentrate mixture @ 40 mg per kid/day was found to be effective. ¾ The basic epidemiology of the common parasitic infestations and incidence of mortality under field conditions studied. ¾ National level baseline information recorded through micro survey of different states on epidemics of goat diseases has revealed that PPR, FMD, Ecoli infection. Contagious Ecthyma, Goat pox, Mastitis, Enterotoxaemia, Pasteurelloisis, Lymphadenitis, enteritis, Amphistomiasis and Mange were the major diseases of goats. ¾ A herbal drug against ectoparasites with the trade name ‘ALQUIT’ developed, validated and found to be very effective.