 In India CIAT is working on identifying strategies for gender transformative climate information services. Rural information and advisory services have the potential to protect and empower women if they recognize these differing needs, and design services and communication channels to overcome the obstacles women face. CIAT would continue focusing on developing high starch and waxy starch containing, and drought tolerant (water use efficient) cassava varieties, and high biomass, short duration maturity and high nutritive quality grass and legume forages for tropical regions, and bio-fortified Rajmah beans, including ‘barbatti’, which are preferred vegetables among the hilly and mountainous regions and tribal populations in India. CIAT has large collection of cassava, forages and bio-fortified beans in its Gene Bank and has specially designed programs in its Agrobiodiversity Research Area. In addition, in line with the recent discussions with ICAR’s DDG Horticulture and Crops, CIAT would also be focusing on ‘Phenomics’ studies using ground penetrating radar mounted on small and medium load capacity drones for monitoring and control of pests in banana, cassava and other crops, and below ground biomass yield estimates, including carbon sequestration, with non-destructive methods. CIAT has pioneered in this area. As CIAT has also pioneered in Digital Agriculture, ICAR collaboration with CIAT will take up training of Indian scientists in this area, as well as in other thematic areas, including Big Data Analysis, Gene Editing, and Cassava Modelling. Additionally, the CIAT led work being carried out through CCAFS, Harvest Plus and WLE-CRP will continue throughout their life span. CIAT has sequenced using next generation technology (Illumina) more than 1000 accessions and 500 breeding lines leading to the identification of crop’s sub-populations and family structure, and that has significantly changed the breeding strategy. CIAT has in the past supplied about 120 accessions and 164 SSR marker tested pre-breeding line to CTCRI to develop cassava mosaic virus resistant, nutrient efficient and drought tolerant varieties for India. Seven Cassava varieties developed using this material have been locally released and are widely grown in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. Some varieties also have low post harvest deterioration levels. The demand for high waxy starch containing cassava varieties for industrial uses is also being fulfilled by CIAT. As of now CTCRI maintains 7 sources of waxy starch; 3 varietal sources of small-granule starch; 10 landraces and 15 pre-breeding lines with PPD tolerance. Additional material with desired characteristics will be accessed from more than 6500 accessions maintained at CIAT Gene bank. CIAT has trained 15 scientists from CTCRI in the past at its HQ and other regions in different innovative technologies, such as marker assisted selection, crop modelling, etc.