 These alterations may be modulated by the epigenetic code that determines the repertoire of transcribed proteins. During 10-14 days of incubation a higher temperature (40°C) cycle of 4 h daily were given and the thermally preconditioned chick were exposed to THI 91 for 7 days at the age of 10 days. Thermally conditioned chicks exhibited better performance in terms of body weights, weight gains, feed intake and FCR as compared to control group on re-exposure to THI 91. BDNF gene expression in brain exhibited higher expression levels in thermally conditioned chicks as compared to control group. Approximately, 2-fold increase in DNA methylation was exhibited by thermally conditioned chicks in BDNF Achievements in Livestock and Poultry Production in Independent India 165 gene promoter over the control group chicks. Overall, the thermally conditioned chicks exhibited better performance. ICAR-DPR has developed a customized electrolyte mixture containing potassium chloride (40.0%), sodium citrate (7.5%), sodium dihydrogen phosphate (2.0%), disodium hydrogen phosphate (2.0%) and sodium bicarbonate (48.5%) for supplementation through the broiler feed. The recommended dose is 1.0 kg t-1 of feed and the cost of electrolyte mixture is Rs. 45 kg-1. Dietary supplementation of Ashwagandha extract (0.75%), turmeric extract (0.1%) and Amla powder (1.0 %), Betain hydrochloride (0.2%), chromium @ 0.3 ppm improved the performance of birds by alleviating heat stress during summer season. 9. Way forward The conventional approaches have tremendously helped in augmenting animal production, however, several challenges are being faced viz. the animal populations are reaching to a state of genetic plateau resulting into lowered genetic gains, cost of feed and other resources are escalating due to various reasons, the increasing ambient temperature and weather changing patterns are resulting into stress causing various physiological and reproductive disorders, and the changing market formats and dynamic state of public likings necessitates for diversification and innovation in animal food products and value addition. This scenario dictates the need for discovering / inventing advanced tools and technologies and applying them for improving production and health of livestock species. The advanced tools such SNP chip based genomic selection is expected to increase efficiency of selection and augment the gains. The biotechnological approaches like gene editing, RNAi, transgenesis, etc. may help in augmenting the production and quality of products even beyond the physiological barriers. The artificial intelligence-based precision livestock farming for different species is expected to be the future of livestock farming. The ARTs such as ETT, OPU-IVF/IVEP, semen sexing and animal cloning will be improvised for easier and economic application at the field level.