 Plot size, number of replications and field layout 6. Management of trials 7. Test locations 8. Monitoring of the trials 9. Data to be generated 9a. Additional data to be generated at AVT-II stage In addition to the generation of data recorded in the previous trials and nurseries, more elaborate data need to be generated, which include the following. (i) Response to the agronomic variables such as different dates of sowing, population densities in terms of spacing, levels of fertilization and irrigation etc., as recorded from the exclusive trials conducted at selected centres by the agronomists. (ii) Response to popular and emerging new weedicides may also be studied. (iii) Reaction to additional diseases and insect-pests of relatively lesser importance to the crop, including nematodes and bacteria, may be investigated and provided. (iv) Attempt should be made to pinpoint genes responsible for resistance/tolerance in the new strains, wherever possible. (v) Intensive evaluation for specific quality parameters relevant to the crop, like oil recovery in oilseed crops/processing properties/actual chapati-/noodle-/bread-making quality in wheat, cooking quality in rice/pulses, protein quality and micronutrients in foodgrain crops and any other quality traits important from nutritional aspects in the concerned crops, should be worked out in laboratories 9 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS where such facilities exist and specified by the workshop. (vi) Responses to relevant abiotic stresses and other important characters are to be recorded with the help of concerned Projects Directors/Cooperators from the respective disciplines. (vii) Additional information on farmer/consumer/market acceptance may also be generated through verification/on-farm trials, wherever possible. (viii) Amenability of the variety to commonly used farm machinery such as seed drill, combine harvesting, picking etc. may also be recorded. 10. Data processing Same as in the AVT-I. D. Variety Identification Procedure Superior eligible test entries shall be identified based on the performance for specific crop zone(s) in the workshop/group meeting for presentation to the Central Sub-Committee on Crop Standards, Notification and Release of Crop Varieties. This shall be done by a committee called “Variety Identification Committee”, constituted in advance of annual workshop/group meeting with the approval of the Deputy Director General (Crop Science). Flow chart for testing entries under the AICCIP evaluation 10 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS a. Constitution of Variety Identification Committee The Variety Identification Committee shall comprise the following.