 Calotropis: Bengali: akand, gurtakand, swetakand; Gujarati: akado; Hindi: ag, ak, akand, ark, madar; Kannada: arka, lakkedagide; Malayalam: erukku, vellerukku; Marathi: akand, lal, akra, lal madar; Oriya: akondo, kotuki; Sanskrit: aditya, arka, mandara; Tamil: erukkam, verukku; Telugu: jilleedudoodi (floss), mandaramu, nallajilleedu. Jackfruit: Assamese: kathal; Bengali: kanthal; Gujarati and Marathi: phanas; Hindi: kanthal, kathal, panasa; Kannada: halasu, hebhalasu; Malayalam: chakka (fruit), pilavu (tree); Oriya: ichodopholo, kantokalo, ponoso; Sanskrit: ashaya, atibrihatphala, panasa, phanasa; Tamil: murasabalam, pala, pila, pila palam; Telugu: panasa, verupanasa; Urdu: kathal. Eupatorium: Assamese: assam lota. Colocasia: taro, dasheen, eddo, cocoyam Citrus: forbidden fruit, pummelo, shaddock Calotropis: bowstring hemp, gigantic swallowwort, madar, milkweed Jackfruit: jackfruit, jack Colocasia: Colocasia esculenta (Linn.) Schott Citrus: Citrus grandis (Linn.) Osbeck Calotropis: Calotropis gigantea (Linn.) Ait. f. Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Jackfruit: Artocarpus heterophyllus Lam. Eupatorium: Eupatorium odoratum Linn. Active ingredients : Colocasia: The leaves and petioles are said to be a good source of provitamin A and vitamin C. The pressed juice of the petioles is used as a styptic or astringent. The presence of a sapotoxin in the tubers has been reported. Citrus: The pink-fleshed fruit is eaten by the local people in the area of production. The fruit is also used for culinary and medicinal purposes. A liquor is prepared from the fruit. The peel is candied or preserved in syrup. The leaves are used for seasoning meat and fish preparations in the Philippines. Calotropis: The leaves are used as green-manure for betelnut, paddy and wheat; they are reported to correct alkalinity in soil. Three to four pluckings of leaves can be obtained from a plant per year; compost can also be made out of it. The flowers possess digestive and tonic properties, and are useful in cough, cold, catarrh and asthma. The seeds are rich in essential amino acids. Jackfruit: Jackfruit is essentially a carbohydrate food and therefore useful as a source of energy. The perianths are rich in sugars; a fair amount of carotene is also present but they are poor in vitamin C. They contain protein, fat, calcium, phosphorus and iron in quantities normally present in other fruits. The seeds are mostly starchy and contain fair amounts of protein, calcium and thiamine and have good pectin content. They have average jellying properties. A dipeptide, aurantiamide acetate, has been isolated from the seeds. Jackfruit with its many and varied uses is a favourite fruit, particularly in south India. The fruiting perianths (bulbs) have a strong, sweet, aromatic odour, fine texture and a rich appetizing taste. In the form of shreds they are eaten as such or are used as an ingredient of icecream, cadies, and other desserts.