 The floods in J&K took some unfortunate turn and the centre had been instrumental in restoring the lost diversity of rice landraces through the Seeds for Needs project. This activity turned into success story of farmers preferred rice varieties. There was revival of local seed system in Kashmir valley in response to the Srinagar floods of September 2014 and seed kits were distributed and evaluated (50,000 affected farmers), in collaboration with Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology for distribution and monitoring. As a contribution and success story, the Khudwani centre of Sher- e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology of Kashmir has recently released two rice varieties namely SKUA-408 (Shalimar Rice-4) and SKUA-402 (Shalimar Rice-5) through State Seed Sub Committee on 23-03-2017. This is the biggest contribution of this programme. The Centre has collaborated with the national system in facilitation of germplasm import, including exchange, regeneration and testing of germplasm. There was a special emphasis for import elite germplasm of temperate fruit crops from Central Asia and their evaluation and use for varietal selection and crop improvement programmes. As a contribution to the National System, scientists from ICAR and PPV&FRA visited Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. The team went to 20 research institutions, agricultural universities, seed/field gene banks and held objective meetings / discussions to identify areas of strengths, gaps, and cooperation on possibilities of exchange and conservation of temperate fruits & vegetables. Sixty-one accessions were collected and submitted to NBPGR. The 1st International Agrobiodiversity Congress was organized on 6-9 November, 2016 where participants from 60 countries attended the sessions which was inaugurated by the Prime Minister of India. Here, the Delhi Declaration on Agro- biodiversity Management universally adopted which emphasized Agro-Biodiversity Index (ABI) a global necessity and a “Year of Agro-biodiversity” proposed to United nations. 2.iii. Socio-economic impact/outcome i. Farmers becoming self reliant in making the right choice of varieties from the trials. They are now trained to do seed production and distribute the seeds of food crops within their village. They now have enough seeds of different ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 12 varieties available in their own community/village for their farming. They now have a choice to grow the varieties based on the climatic situation viz., late sowing, low water etc. ii. Community seed banks will serve as centers of rural activity. Starting from discussions on farming and current agro- climatic situations. The trainings on seed storage in community seed banks will be translated to regular seed storage and so the knowledge level in a certain community will be enhanced in terms of seed storage and conservation.