 Similarly, the crop research is evolving in to a combination of deep knowledge of plant science with the expertise of computing sciences. For instance, digital tools of marker assisted breeding technology are bringing greater precision in plant breeding activity besides making it less time intensive. Most of these precision farming and research tools are based on the application of digital knowledge combining with specific domain knowledge of agricultural sciences. Given such evolution, our Agriculture education system needs to include and strengthen the relevant curriculum in appreciation and usage of digital technology and its application in the Domain of agriculture. Encouraging innovations and entrepreneurship Smart agriculture going forward would involve continuous innovations. Use of innovative tools and processes are replacing traditional practices to improve crop productivity, quality and minimize costs. For instance, labour replacing innovations like herbicide tolerant crops would not only save on labour and inputs, but also improve productivity and minimize environmental impact. Use of drone technology for the application of crop protection chemicals would reduce labour, bring greater precision and effectiveness in its application. Innovation in the field of development of biological fertilizers would not only minimize the chemical fertilizer costs, but also minimize the adverse environmental impact of chemical fertilizers. Climate change, expectation of achievement of Sustainable Development Goals and the disruptive innovations in the market place, are posing great challenges for agri-professionals in carrying out their activities. To be successful, they will have to deal with both, the extent of innovation and also the speed of innovation. Therefore, they will need to be exposed to an ecosystem, which enables curiosity, risk-taking and experimentation at an early stage. Indian agriculture, as mentioned earlier, would see greater participation by the private sector in the future. This would require more entrepreneurs to invest and build agri and food related businesses. An impression currently about a number of agristart ups which have come up in the last few years in India is that most of them are promoted by non-agriculture professionals. It is important also to get more of agricultural graduates to promote agri related startups, as they would have a better understanding of Indian farming and farmers. Improving communication capabilities A good and effective communication capability as part of professional training is increasingly becoming more important, facilitating greater mobility of human resources in the private sector. The requirement of good communication is pronounced more in certain functions like Marketing, and also when one has the responsibility of leading teams in any function.