 Central/States Agricultural Universities and other Departments to cooperate in conducting research through AICRPs/Revolving Fund Scheme/ and any other such schemes funded/ sanctioned by the Council. To commemorate the 92nd Foundation Day of ICAR, the Award Ceremony was organized. Various Awards for ICAR Awards 2019 were presented to the winners on the occasion. The awards were given in 20 different categories to 161 awardees, these comprised 94 scientists, 10 administrative personnel, 6 journalists and 31 farmers. Two institutes, one university, two AICRPs and 14 KVKs were also awarded. Finance: The Revised Estimates in respect of DARE/ ICAR for 2019-20 was ` 7,846.17 crores. An internal resources of ` 368.37 crores (including interest on Loans & Advances, income from Revolving Fund Schemes and interest on Short Term Deposits) was generated during the year 2019-20. The total allocation Budget Estimates for 2020-21 is ` 8,362.58 crores. Partnership and linkages: ICAR works closely with the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) institutes. ICAR/DARE has strong collaboration in the field of agricultural research and capacity building through active MoUs and work plans with 12 out of 15 CGIAR institutes. During 2020-21, ICAR entered into a work plan agreement with The International Fertilizer Development Center (IFDC), Alabama, USA. Work Plan for the period 2020-25 was signed between ICAR and the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) to promote and accelerate the ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 8 OVERVIEW collaborative efforts for research and training in food and agricultural policies. To foster the agricultural research in the Global South, a MoU has been signed between ICAR and Asia Pacific Association of Agricultural Research Institutions (APAARI), Bangkok, Thailand. The ICAR has been pioneering in the human resources development for agricultural research in Afghanistan by establishing the Afghan National Agricultural Sciences and Technology University (ANASTU) at Kandahar. The significant improvement in the expansion and infrastructure development of CAUs happened during 2020 with Prime Minister dedicating the new building of the School of Agribusiness and Rural Management of RPCAU, Pusa, Samastipur and academic building for College of Agriculture, Horticulture and Forestry, administrative building, hostels and faculty residences at RLBCAU, Jhansi. Shri Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of India, dedicated the newly constructed the Academic and Administrative buildings to the nation.