 It reaches a height of 7-8 feet. Its root system is very dense. Farmers select the seeds of Acacia indica from the dung of goat, because the seeds that pass through the Shri Satish Padwalkar, Goteli no.2, Keri Sattari, North Goa (Goa) 403 505 Shri Pandurang Majgeankar, Old Goa, Keri Tiswadi, North Goa (Goa) 403 402 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2773 Indigenous methods of soil and water conservation 2774 Indigenous methods of soil and water conservation under rainfed agro-ecosystem intestine of cattle etc., give about 80% germination. Farmers consider that intestinal juice of goats breaks the dormancy of Acacia indica seeds. Fresh seeds of babool, used for sowing show very poor germination. The dense roots of sarpat grass hold the soil firmly against run-off and the canopy of babool acts as an umbrella to decrease splash erosion. When the rainy season is over, sarpat grass is harvested and sold in market by making bundles. Small branches of Acacia indica are harvested for fuel and agricultural implements is prepared when the plants become 3-4 years-old. Keywords: paddy, sarpat, babool, canopy, bundle Lemongrass and broomgrass are planted on slopy lands. Lemongrass is sold in market and broomgrass is used for preparing huts and houses. Pineapple and rambans are planted in the border of kitchen garden to avoid soil losses, which also act as a fence. At river bank, where paddy is taken, farmers plant arecanut tress on borders. Bamboo and banana plants are also planted on slopy or undulating lands. Keywords: rambans, pineapple, areanut, lemongrass, banana, bamboo To conserve soil and water, the tribal people of Kohka, Ghanaghat and Sarhari villages of Dindori district in Madhya Pradesh follow this practice. Most of the fileds are near to forest areas or under uneven topographical situations. In the upper streams, terraces and channels are constructed. Around all sides of soil beds, channels are constructed with an outlet at outer Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology). College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2775 Soil conservation by planting banana 2776 Stabilization of sand dunes and checking of soil erosion by using kair as a live fence side of the terrace.