 Fleece is white, extremely coarse and open; legs and belly are generally devoid of wool. The animals are generally shorn twice a year in October–December and April–June. Average greasy wool production is about 300 g/annum in two clips. Biochemical Polymorphism At the IVRI, Izatnagar, polymorphic studies were conducted on insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 gene in 138 animals of indian and taurine breeds. Indian cattle (Nimari, Sahiwal and Gir) were homozygous for allele ‘A’ (genotype AA), while taurine cattle (Holstein-Friesian and Jersey) were heterozygous (genotypes AA, AB, BB) possessing both A and B alleles. Biochemical markers identification: Biochemical markers associated with growth and production status in buffaloes were identified, and some markers, which are associated with high vs low milk production (nucleic acid metabolites) were established. Genetic contribution was assessed for some biochemical parameters in body fluids (blood Hb, milk proteins etc). Role of immunoglobulins to enhance survivability in calves: Higher levels of absorbed immunoglobulins within first 16 hr after birth (about 90%) reduced the mortality in calves and resulted in faster growth rate by 20–22% by 2 years of age. Status of immunoglobulin levels at 24 hr post birth could predict the health status of calves. A critical level of these blood proteins, was assessed for the survivability of calves in buffaloes. Supplementation of some fat soluble vitamins enhanced Ig secretion up to 80% in colostrum and 30% in blood of calves. Immune competence of dwarf and naked neck lines: The use of tropical adaptable major genes like dwarf (dw) in broiler parent line (for efficient egg production) and naked neck (Na) gene (for superior growth, better feed efficiency and tolerance to heat stress) was studied for immunological aspects. The dwarf and naked neck gene lines maintained consistently higher antibody titres, implying superiority of these pure lines over their cross combination. However, the cutaneous basophil hypersensitivity response remained uniform for all the genotypes. Equines: Haemoglobin polymorphism studies indicated presence of two phenotypes in equine blood. The most common had single band, only two samples exhibited two bands. Albumin exhibited two phenotypes controlled by two co- dominant autosomal alleles. The fast homozygotes were common. No slow homozygote was observed. Five phenotypes controlled by three autosomal alleles were recorded in equine blood transferrin. Two phenotypes were observed for carbonic anhydrase control by two co-dominant autosomal alleles. Horse amylase did not show any genetic variability till now and only single band was observed. Molecular Characterization Sahiwal and Hariana cattle: At the NBAGR, Karnal, the number of alleles and allelic frequency at 25 microsatellite loci for Sahiwal and Hariana breeds of cattle were calculated from the silver stained gels.