 OVERVIEW DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 7 An antidiabetic nutraceutical “CadalminTM antidiabetic extract (CadalminTM ADe)” from seaweeds was developed and commercialised. The product contains 100% natural bioactive ingredients and is effective in combating type-2 diabetes without any side effects. Chitosan beads of uniform size were prepared from degrees of deacetylated (DA) chitosan. Chitosan beads with 86% DA had high sorption capacity (69%) at pH 8. Process for micro-encapsulation of squalene (an oily liquid hydrocarbon in shark liver oil) was developed. A seaweed enriched nutraceutical drink (NutriDrink), fortified with grape juice was prepared. A molecular source tracking study revealed that seafood gets contaminated with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) from environment and is transmitted to the retail fish markets. Social science: The empirical evidences showed a significant declining trend in groundwater level in Punjab over time due to unrestricted withdrawal of groundwater over its replenishment level. The de-subsidization of energy will prompt farmers to improve groundwater use efficiency, which will result in 29-82 % saving in existing groundwater use in respect of different crops in the state. The price forecasts were developed along with validation of price expectations of stakeholders. Continuous efforts were made to strengthen the dissemination efforts for price forecasts to farmers and other stakeholders. Despite growing dairy industry in India, farmers’ lack of access to organized markets and institutional credit remains one of the major hindrances in improving the scale and productivity of dairy. The farm-level performance indicated more profits for farmers in cooperative value chain. ‘Dairy credit card’ and ‘contract as collateral’ would enable them to adopt yield-enhancing technology and inputs and to scale up their dairy activity also. E-tendering system introduced through e-NAM has contributed towards an increase in the market revenue. The National Marine Fisheries Census was conducted to facilitate formulation of fisheries related plans and policies in the marine sector. Web-based online software for uploading marine fish landings data directly from landing centres/ fisheries harbours was developed. This will enable fast data transmission and estimation of marine fish landings for all nine maritime states and union territories of Puducherry and Daman & Diu. Empowering women in agriculture: A project for improving the quality of life of farm families was developed with a focus on assessment of nutritional status of farm families and suggestive interventions for the management of malnutrition; introduction of drudgery reducing technologies for enhanced efficiency; and need based technological empowerment of farm women for income generation and livelihood security. A Gender Knowledge Portal (http://icar-ciwa.org.