 yy 33 new clones including bio-fortified acquired from CIP and multiplied through in-vitro plants under net house at Modipuram to produce minitubers for further testing. yy 18 advanced CIP clones along with four control varieties were evaluated at 75 and 90 days for adaptability, and processing quality. yy Potato germplasm developed by CIP/CPRI parents with improved tolerance to abiotic stress and viruses evaluated at CPRI-C, Modipuram. yy Hybrid MCIP/11-118-white skin and MCIP/11-163-red skin were selected in confirmatory yield trial (F1C5 clones). yy Hybrid MCIP/10-15 was selected based on tuber yield, dry matter and desirable tuber attributes in final yield trial (F1C6 clones). yy CIP clone 397006.18) was introduced in AICRP for multilocation testing based on higher yield than K. Bahar (Modipuram) and K. Surya/K. Pukhraj (Jodhpur) at 90 days. It possessed high drought tolerance index under mild water deficit than K. Bahar/K. Pukhraj (Modipuram) and K. Surya/K. Pukhraj (Jodhpur). yy CIP clone 397186.70 introduced in AICRP based on 43 t/ha, higher than K. Bahar (35 t/ha), K. Pukhraj (40 t/ha), K. Sadabahar (37 t/ha) at Modipuram. It showed moderate resistant to late blight at Kufri. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 71 yy CP 4054 (CIP 397065.28) is being evaluated in on-farm trials and it is proposed to be released as commercial variety for early planting (early high temperature conditions) for arid and semi-arid agro-ecologies. The farmers will get better price by marketing it before main season harvest. yy CIP in collaboration with CPRI (for past 3-4 years) introduced potato cultivation successfully in the Thar deserts of Rajasthan in year 2016-17 to realize a dream to alleviate poverty by cultivating potatoes at large scale on farmers’ field. The farmers got quite involved in the project, broke the norms of old traditional subsistence farming by adopting Potato as an important income generating crop. yy Seed potato production under low cost insect proof net house: The low cost insect proof temporary insect proof net house technology with drip-irrigation successfully tested in KVK Narayangaon, Pune to multiply the basic seed to check the virus vectors for sustainable seed production in plateau region. Suitable locations below thresh-hold level of aphid population were for quality seed production during Kharif and Rabi seasons in Karnataka and Maharashtra. Women farmers were strong participant in the potato grown successfully in the arid region of Jodhpur, Rajasthan Seed multiplication using temporary net houses to prevent virus infection at KVK Narayangaon, Maharashtra. Farmers field days were used to demonstrate the technology and quality of harvested tubers. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 72 yy A study on strengthening impact assessment in CGIAR (SIAC) was conducted to know the outcome of crop germplasm improvement.