 While enhancing the productivity and production for nation’s food security, biofortification for nutrition, abiotic and biotic stress tolerant varieties, production technologies for climate change stresses, high value integrated farming systems for higher farmers’ income, specific export potential varieties and products to penetrate the new global destinations are included in the new Research & Development priorities. As we are reimagining Indian agriculture, several long-term of priorities are also set. These include increasing use of renewable energy to 50%, reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emission intensity by 45% and rehabilitating 26 million ha degraded land. India has several international commitments such as Panchamrit and carbon neutrality, land degradation neutrality, biodiversity conservation, regional agricultural development and SDGs. ICAR has embarked upon working for standardization, validation and demonstration of organic and natural farming including chemical-free technologies through its research institutes and KVK network. Research on genomics and genome editing would be the core research activity the ICAR is pursuing vigorously for technological breakthroughs in the areas and commodities where traditional breeding could not yield desired results. Precision agriculture, digital interface 1. Overview and use of digitally advance technologies, techniques and tools are on the rise in agriculture to facilitate timely monitoring of weather, plant and soil indicators and provide artificial intelligence-based advisories to the farmers. Strategies and protocols for use of drones, sensor-based automation, solar photovoltaic pumping systems, etc. will pave the way for their large-scale adoption by the farmers.The salient achievements of the Council during 2022 -23 are given below. Crop Improvement: A total of 467 high yielding varieties/hybrids comprising 218 of cereals, 57 of oilseeds, 65 of pulses, 98 of commercial crops, 29 of forage and other crops were released for commercial cultivation. These included 35 special traits varieties (23 MAS and 18 biofortified). A novel QTL (Qlr.nhv-5D.2) on a 5D chromosome was identified for leaf rolling under moisture stress condition in bread wheat. Two new candidate leaf rolling genes, viz. TaZHD1 and TaZHD10 belonging to homeodomain-leucine zipper (HD-Zip) class IV family proteins (gene) were identified in the QTL region. Two C1-Inhibitor (C1-I) specific breeder- friendly markers (MGU-CI-InDel8 and MGU-C1- SNP1) were developed. MGU-CI-InDel8 and MGU- C1-SNP1 markers predicted presence of C1-I allele with 92.9% and 84.7% accuracy, respectively. A genotyping- by-sequencing (GBS) based genome-wide association study (GWAS) approach using 120 genotypes was employed to dissect the complexity of PUpE (P uptake efficiency) and PUtE (P utilization efficiency) traits at the genetic level in mungbean.