 Recently, India’s export in banana is steadily increasing with the help of technology awareness. ICAR-NRCB under the PPP mode along with APEDA has successfully accomplished the export of Nendran. Further, Sea protocol for long distance transport of traditional bananas like Nendran and red banana have been standardized. 3.1.5. Temperate horticulture In India, temperate horticulture crops are grown in Himalayan states in the north and north-east. It plays a vital role in providing nutritional and economic security of the region. Horticulture in these states forms the backbone of economy by providing direct or indirect employment to about 8-10 million people and generating revenue to the tune of Rs. 10,000 crores annually. Among temperate horticultural crops, apple, pear, peach, plum, kiwi fruit, apricot, cherry, almond and walnut in fruits are important with apple, walnut and pear sharing major area, while in vegetables, temperate cultivars of cole crops, bulb and root crops; capsicum, peas, high value leafy vegetables like lettuce, parsley, celery, Chinese cabbage etc. are commercially cultivated in India. In floriculture, tulip, lilium, alestromaria, carnation and Superior quality bunch of banana. Indian Agriculture after Independence 124 gerbera and in medicinal and aromatic plants, Lavender, Lavendine, Geranium, Dioscoria, Podophyllum, Pyrethrum, Mentha, Artemisia etc. are becoming increasingly significant in the recent years. A very high value and low volume crops like saffron and kala zeera, which are exclusively grown in this region, too are commercially important. Other research achievements that have transformed horticulture in these regions include: High Density Plantation in apple increased the productivity from 10-15 t ha-1 to 50-60 t ha-1 with better quality produce; Intensive saffron production technology enhanced the productivity of from 2.5 to 7.5 kg ha-1; New walnut varieties have enhanced yield (4 t ha-1) and have better quality with high export potential. 3.1.6. Exploring natural diversity and promoting custodian farmers Natural populations of cross-pollinated fruit crops are highly heterogeneous in nature resulting in a considerable variation in their yielding abilities, fruit quality and maturity parameters. This provides enough opportunity for clonal selection of promising strains for diverse purposes. ICAR has been making efforts to link such native fruit biodiversity to livelihood security- empowering the custodian farmers. Jackfruit variety ‘Siddu’ and tamarind variety ‘Ravindra’ have proven success of this strategy. Due to this effort, about 75% of the earning would go to the custodian farmer(s) providing them additional livelihood security. Tamarind farmer’s variety Ravindra Tree and arils of farmer’s variety Siddu jack fruit 3.1.7. Indigenizing oil palm Oil palm is likely to play a major role in the future in augmenting the supply of vegetable oil in the country as it is the highest oil yielding perennial crop.