 After two or three months, the stakes should be just pulled out without disturbing the plants. Repotting: As the growth continues, substrate decomposes or roots start rotting or there is no space in pots for new roots, the orchids need repotting. In most orchids, new roots and new growths start growing right after flowering. As soon as new roots start growing (before reaching 1 cm long) repotting should be done. Between the months of February and June repotting can be done. For a few weeks after repotting, it should be nurtured a bit. Their leaves should be sprayed (misted) lightly twice a day for two weeks for healthy plants and up to four weeks for weak and ailing plants. Spraying should be done early in the day and again not later than mid-day. Watering should not be done after 12 noon in winter. Addition of 2 or 3 drops of a rooting solution and Superthrive in the misting water can be beneficial. In absence of rooting solution, a pinch of phosphorus rich fertilizer may be added. For first 3-4 weeks, the repotted plants should be kept in less light than usual. The lower light levels can reduce the repotting stress and let the plants recover faster and better. Plants should be watered lightly (just enough to get the potting material moist, for one week). Enough water should not be applied to run through the drainage holes. After one week, watering thoroughly once a week is recommended. The plants should not be fertilized at least for two weeks of repotting. Temperature: The cool growing Dendrobium orchid group thrives well at temperatures ranging between 10-24oC. The intermediate Dendrobium orchid prefers a temperature range of 14-26oC whereas the warm growing Dendrobium orchids prefer 16-30oC. The warmer group species like Dendrobium gouldii, D. phalaenopsis, D. antennatum, D. biggibum and D. discolour comes to bloom if the night temperature remains above 16oC and the cool growing Dendrobium species like D. lindleyi, D. parishii, D. aggregatum, D. densiflorum, Den. pierardii, D. anosmum and D. chrysotoxum grow well with night temperature of 10oC. Low day temperature reduces vegetative growth, causes leaf yellowing and ultimately defoliation and higher day temperatures delay flower bud development. Orchids can survive and grow ±5oC temperature out of the optimum range, but they will perform best under the optimum temperature range. Light: Dendrobium orchids like indirect or shaded light. Although it varies from species to species, depending on their habitat and growth habit, as per thumb rule, 50% shading is prescribed for most commercial Dendrobiums. With optimum light, Dendrobium plants have plump stems with leathery bright green leaves, when the light is too high the plants show yellowing, stunting and scorching, whereas with less light, plants have succulent, soft and darker green leaves with spiny and thin stems. All types of Dendrobium orchids need warm bright but shaded light (2500 to 3000 foot candles).