 In case, fertilizer unit is attached with the planter then the use of fertilizer drill can be avoided. In potato crop, fertilizer should be placed 5-7 cm below the seed tubers and should not come in direct contact with the seed. Band placement helps in improving efficient utilization of fertilizer which results in improved production. Generally, fertilizers are hygroscopic in nature, hence, it is recommended to properly clean the applicator after use. Seed tuber planting About 80-85 thousand seed potatoes have to be planted per hectare for good yield of the crop. This can be achieved by planting 35-55 g of seed potato tubers per hectare. Uniform placement of tubers in prepared soil bed at specified spacing and depth is also important for better emergence as well as production of the crop. Uniform plant emergence can be achieved by planting of seed material with tractor operated potato planters. Function of the planter is to open a furrow, meter the seed tubers with a suitable metering mechanism, place the tubers in the furrow and cover them with a soil layer of about 6-8 cm. These machines maintain uniformity of planting in terms of row to row (60 cm), plant to plant spacing and depth (6-8 cm) of planting. Various types of machineries available in India for planting of potato are rotating drum type, revolving magazine type, belt and cup type and picker wheel type First two are semi-automatic type planters in which one person per row puts seed tubers in to the seed metering cells of the machines. Function of these machines is to open a furrows and drop the seeds into the soil through seed delivery tubes. Seed tubers are dropped in lines and a ridge of soil mass is formed over the tubers. Automatic planters are becoming popular due to their various advantages over the other types. In this type of machine, labour is required only for filling of hopper. All other activities like lifting individual tubers, dropping them into rows and covering with soil mass are carried out by the machine. Weeding, top dressing and earthing Mechanical and chemical weed control methods are used in most of the crops. Potato being a tuber crop, is highly responsive to inter-row cultivation. Three row tractor operated inter-row cultivator is operated in 22-25 days crop when plant height is 8-10 cm. After operating this weeding machine, three or five row ridger is used for earthing up and remaking the ridges. Ridger makes uniform ridges and accumulates sufficient soil mass around the plants. For light soils and low weed intensity areas, another multipurpose machine is available which performs weeding, furrow opening, fertilizer application and re-earthing Fertilizer applicator cum marker Potato planting with semi automatic and automatic planters Indian Horticulture 52 simultaneously. For chemical weed control, tractor operated multinozzle sprayer or spray gun is used to achieve fast and uniform coverage.