 Anonymous (2000c) 80 Control of gundhi bug in rice The green leaves of the gundhi tree is spread in the affected field and 1–2 cm of water level is maintained in the field to control gundhi bug in paddy (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 81 Control of banka (grasshopper) and rice gundhi bug in paddy by use of kodo straw The straws of kodo (Paspalum scrobiculatum) and ) are burnt near affected fields. Insects get collected and die. Some left alive are gathered physically and killed (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 60 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 82 Control of rust in wheat by use of pearl millet flour Haribhai Narola of Bhavnagar district has been using pearl millet (locally called bajra) flour instead of chemical fertilizers as basal treatment in soil before sowing. The yield of wheat was found higher by 250 kg/ha in the plot treated with bajra flour. Small patches of rust is observed in DAP-treated plot, while the other remained healthy (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Narola (1996) 83 Prevention of fungal pathogen rust through milk in wheat Wheat seeds are immersed in milk before sowing to avoid rust disease.The neutral to alkaline pH of milk not only washes off fungal spores from surface but also the adhesive property of milk fat prevents any further invasion by spores and formation of postules. The low pH of whey milk may prevent germination of fungal spores, avoiding possible secondary infection (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Desai (2000) 84 Control of rust in wheat by seed treatment with milk Farmers immerse the seeds of wheat in the milk before sowing to avoid rust in the crop (Rajkot, Gujarat). Solanki (1991a) 85 Control of rust in wheat by controlling irrigation water Farmers give minimum irrigations to wheat and that too at night for controlling rust (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Desai (1991a) 86 Control of rust in wheat by use of bones of camel Rust affects wheat crop at spike formation. To control it, bones of camel are buried in irrigation channel before irrigating crop. It is believed that rust can be controlled within 10–15 days by this method (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Zala (1994) 87 Use of fruit of Simta for control of insect-pest in maize Fruits (2–3 kg) of Simta vine are cut into small pieces and mixed with water (10–12 litres) in a container and stirred well. After a few minutes, the suspension is filtered through cotton-cloth. Filtered suspension is sprinkled over maize with the help of bamboo leaves/small branches to control insect pest infestation. Suspension is extremely bitter in taste. Tribal people use this fruit because it has an extremely pungent taste. Maize is susceptible to larval insect pest which damage leaf, pollen and cob. They do not have any idea that this suspension either kills the insect pest or keeps away the pest by acting as a repellent. Sometimes these fruits are used to cure endo-parasite infecting intenstine of calf.