, mealy bug and red spider mite in cassava and sweet potato weevil in sweet potato were developed. Integrated disease management (IDM) packages for cassava tuber rot, elephant foot yam collar rot, elephant foot yam post- harvest rot, taro leaf blight and greater yam anthracnose; organic management of collar rot of elephant foot yam and leaf blight of taro were developed and demonstrated. Tuber crops in the Northeastern region have the potential to alleviate poverty, food and nutritional security through processing, value addition and diverse use. The region’s comparative advantages in producing tuber crops can be tapped by setting up small scale processing units for the local market which will also boost rural employment. With this background, an innovative market- led extension intervention ‘Village Incubation Centre’ was established by ICAR-CTCRI at Riha village, Ukhrul district of Manipur in 2016 for the benefit of entrepreneurs for processing and value addition in tuber crops and the model is spreading in all the north-eastern states for ensuring livelihood security of tribal people. These tuber crops are processed into fried chips, powder, French fries, minimally processed products, boiled/steamed/baked tubers, candy, jam, jelly, fried snack products, bakery products, pasta, noodles, instant products, etc. Challenges of tuber crops cultivation in NE region y Difficulty in conservation of root and tuber crops due to vegetative propagation and low multiplication ratio. y Non availability of quality planting materials for climate resilient varieties of tuber crops. y Pest and disease incidence (corm borer and taro leaf blight in taro, sweet potato weevil and rat in sweet potato, rat in cassava). y Fragmentation of land holdings and lack of mechanization. y Shifting cultivation and digging on hill slopes causes heavy soil erosion. y Water deficit due to changes in rainfall pattern, alteration in stream flow and increase in crop water demand. y Increased frequency and intensity of extreme weather events such as droughts and floods. y Lack of demand for tuber crops as they are generally consumed by tribals or poor people. y Lack of processing & value addition and poor marketing facilities. y Absence of industrial utilization for making sago, starch, alcohol, chips, flour, etc. from tuber crops. y Lack of government scheme/policy for promotion of tuber crops. y Lack of premium price for organic produce of tuber crops. y Lack of convergence among stakeholders. Strategies for strengthening tuber crops sector in NE region y Development of varieties with multiple quality traits (short duration, high yielding, biotic/abiotic stress resistance, nutrition rich-carotene, anthocyanin; low antinutritional factors- HCN in cassava, trypsin inhibitors in sweet potato, calcium oxalate in aroids). and popularization through frontline extension programmes.