 Review of literature A large body of literature acknowledges that adopting SWC measures improves crop revenues across the globe (Abebe and Bekele, 2014; Datta, 2015; Meaza et al., 2016; Singha, 2019; Siraw et al., 2020; Tes­ fayohannes et a, 2022; Adere et al., 2022; Abrham Belay et al., 2023; Adebayo Isaiah Ogunniyi et al., 2023). Theoretically, farmers implement SWC measures by comparing the cost of SWC investment with the benefits of avoiding soil erosion losses. The profitability of SWC mea­ sures is site-specific and depends on adopted technologies, input costs, and output prices. Lutz et al. (1994) argue that the farmers’ choice can be viewed as a choice between two different agricultural practices– for instance, practicing a traditional agricultural system where conservation practices are limited or choosing an alternative system, which involves a greater number of SWC measures. From the farmer’s perspective, higher profits under the new agricultural system than those under traditional agricultural practices would justify incurring additional costs of imple­ menting SWC measures. Investing in appropriate technologies to prevent soil erosion will improve soil fertility and agricultural outcomes. Bizoza, De Graaff (2012) conducted a study in hilly areas of Rwanda to examine whether adopting bench terracing improves productivity in agriculture and found that bench terracing improves soil fertility and increases net benefits at the farm level. Kumar et al. (2020) conducted a study in the semi-arid tropics of India to examine whether adopting soil bunds im­ proves farmers’ profitability in agriculture and found that soil bunds improve crop revenue and reduce the chances of downside risk. Singha (2019) highlighted that vegetative soil conservation practices (affor­ estation/bamboo planting) improved farm profit and reduced variable cost in the Darjeeling district of West Bengal, India. Ogunniyi et al. (2023) in a study based in Nigeria argued that SWC practices improved crop productivity and household welfare respectively, by 28 % and 38 %. Similarly, Tesfayohannes et al. (2023) found that adoption of SWC practices increased average household income by 422 ETB in southern Ethiopia. Further, Meena et al. (2020) found that adopting SWC mea­ sures not only improves farm income, but also helps in enhancing water use efficiency, soil fertility, and biological regime. The impact of onsite SWC measures may have differential effects on different crops, which the studies based on aggregate outcomes often fail to capture. Empirical literature has identified that predominant factors, including plot-level and household characteristics, community level, and neighbors’ activities, influence farmers’ decisions to adopt SWC measures. The impact of SWC measures on agriculture productivity may also differ in the presence of community (i.e., watershed) level conser­ vation activities (Datta N, 2015; Nyssen et al., 2015; Yaebiyo et al., 2015; Gebregziabher et al.