 For effective biodiversity management of rich endemic fish species of the country, ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources has been taking several programmes on aquatic biodiversity assessment in biodiversity hotspots and different natural water bodies and also need-based conservation of threatened endemic fish species. Gandhiji also believed in farmers joining hands together to form cooperatives or communities to cultivate their lands. However, all such efforts should be spontaneous, arising from within the community and completely voluntary and there should be no use of force in these contexts. Most of these principles adopted for the development of fisheries and aquaculture sector are in line with the Gandhian thoughts, which have supported sustainability in fish production in the country while preserving the sanctity of most of these resources. However, future endeavours to increase fish production to cater to the ever-growing demand in the country should give utmost importance to conserve the ecosystem, its floral and faunal diversities and the natural resources. The ICAR can contribute significantly towards this endeavour through enhanced efficiency and effectiveness of its research base with the following strategies. 59 yy Improve the efficiency of aquafarmers/fishermen and their financial resources for the effective utilization of natural resources. yy Facilitate accelerated dissemination of improved technologies, knowledge and information; and enhance the quality of human resources in the aqua-supply chain. yy Commercialization of technologies through organized intellectual property rights and benefit-sharing systems. yy Promote effective, efficient and decentralized governance by introducing best management practices proposed by the research organizations of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and Agricultural Universities. 4. Conclusion Gandhian thoughts on agriculture/aquaculture are based on ‘Self-reliance’ and it also preaches the conservation of the ecosystem for the future generation. Aquaculture in the present day is heading towards intensification partly because of the need of a section of the farmers to sustain in the system against the increasing production cost, and partly because of the greed of the other section of the farmers due to unawareness of the consequence or no thought about the consequence of the ecosystem health. However, unlike the agricultural land resources, a major portion of our natural water resources remain untapped. In such a context, the need to increase in fish production should focus on sustainable development through horizontal expansion of the culture area and judicious utilization of the resource capacity for a vertical increase rather than perturbing the ecosystem balance through intensive farming practices. The country has floated the slogan ‘Atma Nirvar Bharat’, thus bringing the ideology of Bapuji to the forefront of our thinking and planning process.