 It is an autonomous organization under the Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India. Formerly known as Imperial Council of Agricultural Research, it was established on July 16, 1929. The Council is the apex body for coordinating, guiding and managing research and education in agriculture x including horticulture, fisheries and animal sciences in the country. With its headquarters at New Delhi and a network of 101 research institutes and 71 agricultural universities spread across the country, this is one of the largest national agricultural systems in the world. The Council has played a pioneering role in ushering the Green Revolution and subsequent developments in agriculture in India through its research and technology development that has enabled the country to increase the food production several folds and thus ensuring national food and nutritional security, which the Mahatma dreamed of. The Council has played a major role in promoting excellence in education in agriculture, as envisaged by Gandhiji. To pay our homage and respect to the Father of the Nation on his 150th birth anniversary, ICAR brought out this publication to present the contributions of ICAR in implementing the Gandhian philosophy for realizing sustainable agriculture and rural development. Detailed assessment has been made in improving crop, horticulture, animal and fish productivity; ensuring food, nutritional and livelihood security; imparting practical and theoretical agricultural education; promoting organic and low-input agriculture; protecting environment, agro-biodiversity and ecology; promoting small agri-enterprises and gender empowerment; encapsulating Gandhian thoughts on new science and technology-led development; upholding ethics in agricultural science; and harnessing local interventions for global gains in natural resources management. It also highlights the future path of ICAR in line of Mahatma’s vision of Gram Swaraj and Atma Nirbhar Bharat. We sincerely hope that the publication will be useful to the policy-makers, planners, administrators, farmers, social workers, students and the followers of Gandhiji in India and abroad. Besides helping the ICAR in reassessing and setting new path of agricultural progress, it shall provide necessary inputs to the other organizations and stakeholders in improving agriculture with the vision of Mahatma Gandhi. Editors xi acknowledgements Farmers form the bulk of India’s population and are the backbone of the country. With about 55% of India’s population dependent on agriculture for its livelihood, the welfare of farmers assumes great significance. For Gandhiji, the farmer was the central point for sustainable social order. According to him, the agriculture should be planned in such a manner that each village shall be self-sufficient in its food requirements.