 Intervention Three villages—Kalala, Chananwal, and Moom— were selected based on the survey and discussions for interventions to prevent TRP. Awareness camps were organized in these villages to educate farmers on preventing the disease. Informational materials in the local language were also developed and distributed among the farmers. For practical demonstration of TRP prevention, oral magnet therapy was chosen as it is a standardized and recommended technology for TRP prevention. A total of 60 beneficiaries, 20 from each village, were selected based on the number of animals and disease incidence. Oral magnets were inserted as a preventive measure in 162 animals, including 102 buffaloes and 60 cows. These 60 beneficiaries served as an experimental group, and in their farms, no incidence of TRP has been reported to date. Given the benefits of oral magnets, both the beneficiaries and other farmers in the area have adopted the technology to safeguard the health of their animals. The adoption rate of oral magnets in the selected villages has now reached 56%, meaning that 56% of farmers have used oral magnets for their animals. Administration and working of oral magnets Oral magnet therapy is considered the first line of treatment for TRP. The oral magnet is a special cylindrical or bullet-shaped magnet, 70 mm in length, designed by experts at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana. It is administered orally into the animal’s rumen using a balling gun or flexible plastic pipe, particularly for animals at higher risk of ingesting metal or in environments with a likelihood of sharp objects in the feed. Once swallowed, the magnet moves into the rumen and then settles in the reticulum, the second compartment of the stomach, due to gravity and the digestive system’s structure. The magnet sits passively in the reticulum and attracts metallic foreign objects, such as nails, wires, and screws, ingested by the animal. Since the reticulum is where most ingested foreign objects settle, the magnet traps these sharp objects before they can penetrate the reticulum wall. Without this trapping effect, such objects could penetrate the reticulum wall, causing infection, inflammation, or damage to nearby organs like the heart, diaphragm, and lungs, leading to TRP. The magnet remains in the reticulum for 5 to 7 years and gradually degrades. However, it can be surgically removed after a radiological examination if it has trapped a high number of foreign bodies. In most cases, the cow shows no ill effects from the presence of the magnet, as it remains safely in the reticulum without interfering with digestion or movement. Encased in inert steel, the magnet does not harm the animal’s physiology. By using magnets as a preventive tool, the risk of TRP is greatly reduced, leading to improved health and productivity in dairy cattle. Impact Oral magnet therapy has both short-term and long- term positive impacts on farm economics.