 Swarna Samriddhi Dhan will significantly contribute to increase the rice productivity of irrigated as well as rainfed ecology and alleviate the socio-economic status of farmers of eastern region. Keywords: Drought, Multiple stress, Rice, Submergence Indian Farming 73 (02): 9-11; February 2023 R ICE is one of the major staple food of India covering nearly one-fourth of total cropped area and providing food to about half of the Indian population. It is cultivated under diverse ecological condition ranging from rainfed to favourable irrigated and rainfed upland rice to deep water rice. In Bihar, rice is cultivated in ~3.31 Mha with production and productivity of 8.09 million tonnes and 2.447 t/ha, respectively. Rice is main source of food for most of the population of the Bihar state. Despite this, it's productivity in Bihar is incredibly low compared to developed states. Climate change is one of the main reasons for low productivity of rice in this region. The productivity levels of rice are affected due to several reasons like delay in onset of monsoon, long dry run and erratic monsoon. Frequent occurrence of drought and submergence has been identified as key to the low rice productivity in Bihar as well as other eastern states. In future, increasing frequency and intensity of droughts and floods under changing climatic conditions will have a more negative impact on rice production and productivity. In view of increasing population and fulfill the future food requirement, rice production needs to be increased by increasing its productivity. Development of high yielding rice varieties with tolerance to multiple stresses can play significant role in increasing rice production. Under climate changing scenario, there is an urgent need to develop, disseminate and adopt high yielding multiple stress tolerant rice varieties to achieve goal of doubling income of farmers and to ensure the food self-sufficiency at state as well as national level. A high yielding multiple stress tolerant rice variety, Swarna Samriddhi Dhan (IET 24306) has been developed by the ICAR- Research Complex for Eastern Region, Patna in collaboration with International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), Philippines. It has been released by the State Seed Sub-Committee (Bihar) and notified by the Central Sub-Committee on Crop Standards, Notification and Release of Varieties for Agricultural Crops, Govt. of India (notification number S.O. 500 (E) dated 29th Rice variety Swarna Samriddhi Dhan Indian Farming 10 February 2023 January 2021), for the cultivation in Bihar. It is suitable for cultivation under transplanted condition in irrigated as well as rainfed ecology of Bihar. Swarna Samriddhi Dhan is a medium duration (135–140 days), high yielding (5.5–6.0 t/ha), multiple stresses (drought, submergence, disease, and insect pest) tolerant, lodging resistant with desirable cooking quality traits. Quality wise, Swarna Samriddhi Dhan has 77.8% hulling, 62% milling, 55.