 The high surface area (1100-1250 m2/g) activated carbons from jute sticks are utilized to treat polluted water with heavy metals like cadmium or synthetic textile dyes like reactive dyes, acid dyes or basic dyes which hold immense application potential for water treatment applications similar to commercially available products. For the first time, specially designed low surface area (200-350 m2 g-1) activated carbon derived from jute stick, are evaluated for its cleanup efficiency in a mixture of 181 multi- class pesticide residue testing food materials like okra, spinach, pomegranate and tea. The cleanup effectiveness showed superiority over the commercially available and non- renewable graphitized carbon black. It was estimated that JAC will be 1100 times cheaper than the commercially available activated carbon. Application of JAC therefore in food testing will reduce testing cost. 5.4.5. Natural resins and gums mechanization and post-harvest processing Natural resins and gums (NRG) are low volume, high value produce. To promote the Technological milestones 1962 The first fibre bundle strength tester 1968 Portable air-flow jute fibre fineness tester 2011 Digital multiple fibres grading instruments 2011 Nonwoven & bio-composite technologies 2016 CACP introduced digital instrumental jute grading system for MSP 2016 Natural fibre extractors machine 2016 Jute-Yak Blended fabric and products 2020 BIS standard for digital grading IS 271:2020 Indian Agriculture after Independence 300 primary lac processing at village level, small scale lac processing units (capacity 100 kg day-1) comprising of Lac crusher, Lac washer, Lac Grader and Lac winnower have been developed and commercialized. An integrated small scale lac processing unit (100 kg day-1) has been developed for making seedlac, a semi-refined product thus reducing manpower requirement, time and drudgery. Lighter coloured seedlac with wash water having dye content above 50% compared to 30-35% dye from conventional process is obtained. Tamarind gum possesses numerous dynamic properties but due to requirement of heating/ boiling to get clear solution, its exploitation was limited. To make it cold water soluble, a new method has been developed through which purification is achieved in less time with significantly high yield (70- 75%). The purified gum retains all the properties of native gum with improved solubility. Guar gum derivatives have been synthesized by semi-dry and non-aqueous method which involves eco-friendly and non-toxic organic solvent. The derivatives are - Carboxy methyl (anionic, Hydroxypropyl (non-ionic), Hydroxypropyl trimethyl ammonium chloride (cationic).