 Jodhpur (Rajasthan) Shri Bhoma Ram ji Shaulanki, Daijar, Mandor, dist. Jodhpur (Rajasthan) Content HORTICULTURAL CROPS Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator of seed treatment of cucurbits, as indicated below: 1. Bitter gourd: Salt (100 g) is dissolved in 2 litres lukewarm water, and 1 kg bitter gourd seed is soaked in it for 12 hr. After this the seeds are washed with normal water and kept in wet cloth. These are ready for sowing. Seeds germinate within 7 days (3 days earlier than without seed treatment). 2. Bottle gourd (Lagenaria siceraria): About 0.5 kg bottle gourd seeds is dipped in 1.5 litres sour buttermilk for 15 hr. After this, the seeds are washed with clean water and kept in wet cloth. The seeds are used for sowing, and they germinate within 7 days instead of 10 days. 3. Round gourd (Tinda): For the treatment of 1 kg seed, 2 litres cow-milk is required. Seeds are soaked in cow milk for 12-14 hr and then kept in wet cloth and used for sowing. Fruits obtained by this seed treatment are bigger in size and shining colour in comparison with those of untreated seeds. 4. Cucumber (Cucumis melo): Salt (50 g) is dissolved in water and is heated to make it slightly warm. About 33 g seeds are kept in this water for 10-12 hr. Thereafter these seeds are washed with clean water and kept in wet cloth. It is ready for sowing. These seeds germinate within a week in comparison with 10 days taken by the untreated seeds. Keywords: seed treatment, bitter gourd, bottle gourd, round gourd, cucumber, salt, sour butter milk, cow milk Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3001 3002 3003 Treatment of summer cucurbit (balam kakari) seeds for early and better germination Conservation of soil moisture for summer cucurbit cultivation Breaking the dormancy of bitter gourd seeds by keeping in compost pit This ITK is followed in village Ram in district Dungarpur of Rajasthan. In this practice summer cucurbits are treated with mahua leaves. Earthen pot as per quantity of seeds is taken, and the seeds along with lukewarm water are poured in it so that the seeds get moist. Then the entire quantity of seeds is covered with green mahua leaves, and a lid is placed over the opening of pot. It is kept for 3 days. The sprouted seeds are sown in furrows. The seeds germinate early. Keywords: seed treatment, summer cucurbit, mahua leaves, earthen pot This ITK is practised by most of the summer cucurbit growers of Palada Moru (Gaaradia Bandh) village in district Dungarpur of Rajasthan. Summer cucurbits are sown in February-March. Seeds are sown around the field in deep and broad furrows at an interspace of 1.5 m. Seeds sprout after 10 days of seeding. Between the rows, clods are broken and the soil is made compact by beating with stick. After 2-3 intercultural operations, this practice is again repeated.