 There are earthing up around the tree trunk in the radius of 30–40 cm to avoid water stagnation around tree trunk. Cup and saucer method: In cup and saucer method a circular pit of about 0.50 m width and 0.50 m depth around the tree is prepared at distance of 1–1.5 m from tree trunk. The slope of the basin is kept towards outside so that rainwater is Indian Farming 14 May 2023 collected in the pit. Opening of catch pits and ditches: In rainfed areas, the rainfall is erratic in nature which makes fruit production more difficult. In that situation it is important to minimize the runoff losses whenever rainfall takes place. For this purpose catch pits and ditches are developed around the trees. The runoff water collected in the pits can be utilized by the trees during water stress conditions. V- shape ditches: In the land area at 4–6 m intervals V-shaped ditches are made. Down the line ditches are covered with soil bunding. The trees are planted in the pits based on spacing needed. Development of catch pits: To harvest the rain water catchments in the form of pits is made around each tree, the size of which is determined by slope of land, requirement for optimum fruit production and canopy of fruit tree. Depending upon topography of soil, catchment area can be developed all around the trees or on its two sides. Increase in moisture storage capacity of soil: In light texture soils, water is lost through ploughing. The water holding capacity can be increased as: • Increasing organic matter of soil • Placement of slowly permeable layer at the bottom of profile/ or appropriate depth to check deep percolation. Bentonite clay barrier has been found to be highly suitable as it has very low hydraulic conductivity (10–15 tn Bentonite/ha is required). Use of anti-transpirants: Anti- transpirants are the chemicals, which when sprayed on the plant forms a film which increases the diffusion resistance of water from stomata and thus reduces transpiration losses of water. Several anti transpirants have been used in fruit crops e.g. Stomatal closing type: PMA (Phenyl mercuric acetate), Alachlor, Butachlor. Reflectant type: Kaolinite (3–8%). Film forming type: Ethyl alcohol. Growth retardent type: Cycocel or CCC (2-chloroethyl, trimethyl ammonium chloride). SUMMARY Moisture conservation is an important tool for successful fruit production under water scare conditions and where rainfall is the primary source of water for the fruit production. In such conditions, moisture conservation techniques like contour farming, mulching and rainwater harvesting are crucial to maintain optimal soil moisture levels throughout the growing season. These techniques are helpful in maintaining the optimum soil moisture by reducing evaporation and runoff losses and increasing infiltration which further helps in quality fruit production.