 The beneficiary farmers of CFLDs also play an important role as source of information and quality seeds for farmer- to-farmer dissemination of the high yielding varieties. RMO 2251 mothbean proved the best performing variety which should be promoted through mass extension programme. There is need to augment seed production of farmers preferred varieties at extension farm and farmers’ fields in a participatory mode. Efforts may also be augmented for development of high- yielding and climate-resilient varieties of mothbean for diversification of pulses production catering to needs of diversified agri-food systems under diverse agro- climatic conditions. *Corresponding author email: mohar.meena@icar.gov.in Impact Evaluation of KVKs Third Party Evaluation by NITI Aayog Institute - National Institute of Labour Economics Research and Development (2015 & 2018) ° Onan average, each KVK covers 43 villages and 4,300 farmers. ° About 80% of villages covered by KVK are over |0 km away from the KVK. ° Of-campus activities are more than On-campus. ° 96% of farmers’ requests were attended by KVKs. ° 42% of technologies adopted resulted in higher productivity. e Enhanced incomes are spent on better education, health, housing etc. ° On an average, each KVK trained about 100 persons annually on agriprenurship. ° About 25% of the persons trained started self-employment venture. ° KVKs reported an edge over other organization providing technology services. Third Party Impact Evaluation of KVK Scheme by Indian Society of Agribusiness Professionals (2021) ¢ Impact of On-farm Trials and Frontline demonstrations is excellent. ° Impact of the IFS models is seen manifolds as compared to other extension activities. ° As per the feedback received from the farmers, demonstration of precision agriculture in farmers’ fields should also be taken up in good numbers by KVKs. ° It is required to give demonstrations on improved tools and farm implements including drudgery reduction tools by KVKs. ° KVKs should be promoted and fully equipped for the promotion of entrepreneurs for Agri-clinics and supply systems. Indian Farming March 2024 20 Indian Farming 26 March 2024 Agro-based enterprises A way forward to women empowerment Seema Yadav1, S K Dubey1*, S K Singh1 and Raghwendra Singh1 1ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Rawatpur, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh 208 002 Women's contribution to agriculture is significant as they are the major food producers across the world. Though they perform more than 80% of the agricultural activities, their role and contribution in agriculture remain unrecognized and overlooked. Women farmers are identified as an imperative link in the development of agriculture and allied sectors (livestock production, fishing, horticulture, agroforestry, post-harvesting operations, etc.). Women farmers could increase farm yield by 20-30%, which could raise agricultural output in developing countries by 2.