 1800-2500 and above as personal Promotion on the basis of 81 and above marks out of a total of 100 marks. PARTC MECHANISM FOR REVIEW OF ASSESSMENT RESULT* 1. In order further to meet the demand for a suitable mechanism for review of assessment results where a candidate is not satisfied it has been decided with the approval of the Controlling Authority of the Service, that in a case where a scientist has not been found suitable for promotion from the due date, he may, if he so desires submit a note of not more than 500 words in support of his claim for promotion retrospectively from the due date. Six copies of the note alongwith the recommendations of the Direc- tor, DDG/DG, ICAR, as the case may be, in the sealed cover, keeping in view the material which was furnished by the concerned scientist earlier in his five yearly assessment proforma or in the proforma containing supple- mentary information will be furnished to the Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board. The Board will consider whether there is any strength in the representation to justify grant of promotion retrospectively from due date. The recommendations of the Board on such a representation will be treated as final and no further representations in the matter will be entertained. 2. As stated above, the benefit of review with a view to granting assessment benefit retrospectively from the due date to a scientist will be admissible to a scientist only once in the course of his assessment/re-ass&js- ment in a grade. 3. The above decision will apply in the case of assessment/re-assess- ment carried out by the Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board for the perjod(s) ending 31-12-80,31-12-81 and 31-12-82 in the last phase in response to the ICAR circular letter No.4-l/83-AU dated the 19th March, 1983. The results of the assessment carried out in the earlier phases will not, however, be reopened. This will also be applicable in the case of future assessments/reassessments. *[No. 8—14/85-Per. IV dt. 25.7.85J. 

  ICAR Technologies Breeding and Seed Production of Finfishes and Shellfishes Indian Council of Agricultural Research New Delhi ICAR Technologies : Breeding and Seed Production of Finfishes and Shellfishes July 2019 Project Director (DKMA) Dr S.K. Singh Editing Dr S. Raizada Dr P. Pravin Dr Aruna T. Kumar Dr J.K. Jena Production Dr V.K. Bharti Sh K.B. Gupta © Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi-110 001, India Printed by Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi, and published by Dr S.K. Singh, Project Director (DKMA), on behalf of Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012, and printed at M/s Royal Offset Printers, A89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi 110028 Achieving the second highest position in global fish production and sharing over 6% of the total fish food basket is a matter of great pride for the country. The country’s fish production reached all time high of 11.