 • Domestic Products: Potato Pickle, Lachha, Marmalade (murabba), Potato tikki, Potato jam, Potato samosa, Potato lollipop etc. Classification of processed substances Processed substances can be mainly classified into three categories • Fried: Potato chips, French fries, aloo lachha, aloo bhujia etc. • Dehydrated (dry): Potato flakes, potato powder, potato shreds, potato custard powder and soup thinner etc. • Canned. Need for processed potato product In India, approximately 87% potato is produced in sub-tropical Indo-Gangetic plains where the harvest of crop in February and March is followed by the hot summer months. Potato is semi perishable crop and contains about 80% water and 20% dry matter. Potatoes are stored usually from the month of march for about >5 months. Post harvest losses in potato have been estimated to be 15- 20%. More processing not only can tackle the situation like potato glut but can also meet the growing demand for potato products in various ways as given under: • Value addition may directly promote income. • Correct use of increasing yields. • Increased demand for processed products in cities. • Help working women using ready-to-eat products (RTE). • Increase in income in addition to selling of raw potato. • Fulfillment of interest of youth and children towards processed products. • Easy storage and increased shelf life of processed products Different Potato Products Potato chips preparation: Potato chips are mainly used Potato chips Indian Horticulture 66 as fried snacks. Potatoes are first washed and peeled. Potato are cut into slices 1-1.8 mm thickness, washed and dried. After drying the moisture from the surface of the slices, the slices are fried at 180°C. The chips are fried until the bubbling stops. Finished product can be stored in nitrogen sealed packets by adding salt or spices as per taste. Potato French fries: The practice of French fries is highly appreciated by people of all ages and the demand for it is expected to increase continuously in the coming times. In addition to serving French fries fresh, frozen French fry is being increasingly practiced in large hotels and restaurants. Frozen French fries were already practiced in developed countries. With the changing lifestyle and eating pattern, the custom of Frozen French Fries too has reached early in India. The thin potato strip is cut into 0.70 × 0.70 cm or 1 × 1 cm in length. After drying moisture from the surface of the strip, it is fried for five minutes at 180°C. Whereas, for making frozen French Fry, strips are fried (one minutes) and keep it in the deep freezer and can be fried for three minutes before serving. Dehydrated potato products: Potato dehydrated chips, potato pieces, potato granules, flakes, wadi and papad etc. can be kept for long time by making dehydrated potato products. Dehydrated potato chips absorb less oil and finished product will prove to be good for those who are health conscious.