 Title and start date of enterprise Specialty Tea; May, 2020 Nature/Details of the enterprise Area 10 Ha, Crop: Tea Product : Handcrafted Orthodox Black Tea Approximate turnover per year ` 2,00,00,000 Approx. net profit per year ` 40,00,000 Number of persons employed 30 Any other relevant information All compost applied is produced on–farm Bio-pesticide production unit Assam Agricultural University, Jorhat 785 013 E-mail: vc@aau.ac.in OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 83 T amil Nadu Agricultural University is one of the pioneers in promoting agriculture related businesses in the country. The Directorate of Agribusiness Development, TNAU was established in 2007 with the major mandate of supporting startup companies in agriculture including Food Processing, Farm Machinery, Horticulture, Renewable Energy, Wealth products from agricultural wastes, Bio-inputs, Organic vegetable cultivation, Hi Tech / Vertical Farming, IoT and AI based Agriculture and Drones for farming through business incubators. The “Technology Business Incubator" (TBI) funded by National Science and Technology Entrepreneurship Development Board, New Delhi, was established in the Directorate of Agribusiness Development, TNAU, Coimbatore in 2011. The TBI extends its support and motivates startups and entrepreneurs in the field of agribusiness by providing technical guidance, quality certification, financial guidance and market linkages through business promotional activities. The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, RKVY Division, New Delhi has established a RKVY- yy Dr V Anusheela, M/s. Herbomill Nutrolites dealt with production of multi millet muesli which is devoid of artificial ingredients and chemicals. She was able to generate an annual turnover of ` 6 lakhs. yy Ms R N Jana Bharathi, M/s. J S Foods is involved in production of value added millet products and generate annual revenue of ` 7.2 Lakhs. yy Some of the student entrepreneurs Mrs K Akila M/s Aalam produces herbal Tea / decoction and Mr M Vasanth Kumar, M/s Gravity Pest Solutions manufactures low cost pest trap. Ms P Padma Priya, M/s Sesha Purification, manufacturing solar based desalinator has just initiated production and marketing the products with the support of Technology Business Incubator, TNAU. Technology Business Incubator, Directorate of Agribusiness Development, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore Email: business@tnau.ac.in Promoting entrepreneurship among agri graduates Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Experiential Learning Programme RAFTAAR Regional Agribusiness Incubators (R-ABI) centre at the Technology Business Incubator, DABD, TNAU, Coimbatore from 2019 for implementing two programmes. Under RKVY-R-ABI, two programmes viz., (i) Agripreneurship Orientation Program (AOP) (ii) Startup Agribusiness Incubation Program (SAIP) are implemented every year since 2019. Among 11 grantees under APO, 6 were TNAU graduates and among 17 SAIP grantees one was from TNAU.