 cradle (input production and transportation to farm), on-farm emissions, and from farm-gate to consumption; the post-harvesting segments (i.e from farm gate to consumption) contribute maximum GHG emissions to LCA followed by transportation of inputs and farm-machinery, and on-farm soil emissions. It is suggested that processing, cleaning, milling and post- harvest activities must be taken into priority to mitigate GHG emissions. Life cycle assessment to assess carbon footprint of major rice production system: Life cycle assessment (LCA) is a holistic approach to assess multiple environmental impact over the entire life cycle of products or services. Accordingly, carbon footprint was estimated in different rice production systems (zero-till, aerobic and shallow lowland) through total life cycle analysis. The total LCA of GHG emissions deriving from three main components, viz. cradle to farm (input production and transportation to farm), on-farm emission, and farm-gate to consumption. The study revealed that aerobic rice emitted lowest total GHG-C-eq/tonne followed by ZTR and SLR, respectively. The carbon footprint per tonne of rice Percentage contribution of carbon footprint from different inventories for the production of one tonne of rice (AR, aerobic rice; SLR, shallow low land rice; and ZTR, zero tillage rice). Multiple-stress tolerant rice Swarna Samriddhi Dhan for lowland ecosystem of Bihar: A multiple-stress tolerant rice variety Swarna Samriddhi Dhan (IET 24306) developed by ICAR–RCER, Patna was notified and Carbon accumulation in wetlands and corresponding reference sites of West Bengal (top) and Assam (bottom) ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 16 CLIMATE CHANGE AND RESILIENT AGRICULTURE ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 17 released for cultivation in irrigated as well as rainfed lowland ecosystems of Bihar. Swarna Samriddhi Dhan is a medium duration (135–140 days), high-yielding (5.5– 6.0 tonnes/ha), multiple-stresses (drought, submergence, disease and insect pest) tolerant, lodging resistant with desirable cooking quality traits and long slender grain type. Quality wise, Swarna Samriddhi Dhan possesses 77.8% hulling, 62.0% milling, 55.6% head-rice recovery (HRR) with desirable intermediate alkali spreading value (ASV=7.0), amylose content (24.33%) with long slender grain type. Beside drought tolerant, this variety can also tolerate 8–10 days submergence. Drought-tolerant rice Swarna Sukha Dhan for rainfed upland ecology of Uttar Pradesh: A drought- tolerant rice variety Swarna Sukha Dhan (RCPR 16, IET 24692) was notified and released for cultivation under drought prone rainfed upland ecology in Uttar Pradesh. RCPR-16 (IET 24692) has recorded yield advantage of 11.48 and 19.63% over NDR 97 (best check) and Shusk Samrat (local check) respectively. Swarna Sukha Dhan is a short duration (110–115 days), high-yielding (3.5– 4.