 The talc formulation has a longer shelf life of more than 24 months. The bioformulation can be stored under ambient temperature. 2. Target crops and delivery system: Goa Bio-1 can be used in paddy (under saline and non-saline soils), vegetable crops (brinjal, tomato, chilli and cucumber), black pepper, fruit and plantation crop nurseries. Application of talc formulation is through seed treatment, soil application in nursery and main field. 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): All 4. Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated at ICAR- CCARI, Goa and under farmers’ field in rice, vegetable crops and black pepper. Large scale demonstration and validation was done in farmers’ fields through tribal sub plan and SCSP programmes. 5. Benefits: Benefits of using Goa Bio-1 include, better nutrient mineralization; alleviation of salinity stress; better crop establishment; improved plant growth parameters, yield and soil biological activity. In paddy, application of bioformulation with NPK and bioformulation with organic manure recorded higher growth parameters when grown under saline conditions. In Korgut local land race, higher grain yield was recorded in bioformulation with NPK (1.31 t ha-1) followed by NPK (1.28 t ha-1) and bioformulation with OM (1.25 t ha-1). Application of bioformulation in nursery (1.19 t ha-1) and in field also increased the grain yield (1.17 t ha-1) compared to control. In field demonstrations, 12.0% increase in grain yield was recorded. Application of talc formulation reduced the incidence of soil borne diseases in vegetable crops (40-60%) and foot rot in black pepper (70-80%). Rice Black Pepper Application of Goa Bio-1 to rice, black pepper plantation and chilli 6. Contact: Director, ICAR- Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute, Old Goa 403 402 Goa. 44 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Goa Bio-2 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Goa Bio-2 is a bioformulation containing a plant growth promoting antagonistic bacterium (Bacillus methylotrophicus RCh6-2b). The talc formulation has a longer shelf life of more than 24 months without any loss of bacterial populations(8 log CFU g-1). The bioformulation can be stored under ambient temperature. 2. Target crops and delivery system: Goa Bio-2 can be used in vegetable crops (brinjal, tomato, chilli and cucumber), black pepper, fruit and plantation crop nurseries. Application of talc formulation is through seed treatment, soil application in nursery and main field. 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): All 4. Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated at ICAR- CCARI, Goa and under farmers’ fields in vegetable crops and black pepper. Large scale demonstration and validation was done in farmers’ fields through tribal sub plan and SCSP programmes. 5.