 Lower yield increase of mulberry crop is indicative of the fact that silt application had minimal effect on established Agro-biodiversity, Ecology and Agriculture: Gandhian Thoughts 78 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR perennial plant, however, farmers noticed improvement in quality of mulberry leaves and higher intake by silk worms. The impact of technology was more pronounced during second year, although it was a mega drought year (2009). As such, cotton in Warangal and Nalgonda and groundnut in Anantapur were found to be highly significant while mulberry in Kolar registered non-significant. Evidently, highly significant yield increase registered 124% in case of cotton, which was replaced on castor in the same plot in the second year in Nalgonda followed by groundnut (about 62%) in Anantapur and cotton (57%) in Warangal. Thus, it is inferred that silt application not only improved yield, but also, motivated farmers to diversify to other crops for realizing higher economic benefits. Silt application technology not only helped the farmers in making their soil rich and get “More Crop and Income Per Drop of Water” but also motivated farmers to diversify to other crops for realizing higher returns. Recycling of silt in rainfed areas not only improves yield and income but also makes use of rainwater efficiently and mitigate dry spells. It is in this backdrop that certain public funded schemes like MGNREGS has included tank desilting as one of the priority works. 3.3. Irrigation Water Management Sustainable irrigation management requires efficient, precision technologies for irrigation and farming practices that are based on ecosystem approaches to conserve water. As the demand for water from nonfarm sectors increases and availability of water for agriculture sector declines, the conflicts between upstream and downstream users may increase over the time. This may result in possible conversion of existing productive irrigated lands to rainfed lands. Increasing water productivity at farm level is the key management issue. Broadly, the important water management measures for enhancing productivity are (a) proper irrigation scheduling, (b) optimization of rice transplanting date, (c) conjunctive use of rain, canal and groundwater, (d) use of water and energy efficient irrigation methods e.g., sprinkler irrigation, micro-irrigation, (e) multiple use of water, (f) improved agronomic practices, , and (g) acceleration of resource conserving technologies e.g., zero tillage, conservation tillage, raised bed etc. (Chaudhari et al. 2015) . Different forms of multiple use systems, i.e., multiple use of harvested rainwater, canal water after outlet and in the network itself, groundwater where pumped water from tube well used for other productive purposes before it is delivered to field for irrigating field crops etc. have been found to enhance water productivity in different locations (Chaudhari et al. 2015).