 (h) The Civil work shall not be started before approval of Plan and estimates from ICAR. (i) KVK should ensure that plinth area of building and the specification of the work should not be changed during execution of work without prior approval of ICAR. 2. Equipments, machineries and implements: The funds allocated against this item may be utilised for procurement of power drawn, bullock drawn and hand--operated agricultural machines, implements, equipments and tools which are to be used for operation of farm, laying of demonstration and organization of training in the fields of agriculture and allied enterprises. This will also include the cost of electric motors for irrigation, pumping sets, generator, big or small tractors and irrigation pipes including installation of drip and sprinkler irrigation systems. The equipments, which were sanctioned as per approved EFC document, only have to be purchased. The funds allocated in this sub-head may be used for purchase of computers, printers, photocopiers, computer software etc. for the office use. The list of equipments may be prepared according to the priority keeping in mind the allocations made as per the norms of the Council. Procurement may be done in phases. Utility of equipments must be ensured before their purchase. 3. Teaching aids and laboratory equipments: This may include the expenditure on purchase of teaching aids and laboratory equipments, etc. The Chief Scientist-cum-Head/Purchase Committee of KVK should ensure about its full utilisation in the KVK before the need based items are purchased. 95 Financial Management 4. Furniture, fixtures and fittings: The expenditure on purchase of furniture and fixtures both for the office as well as hostels and library may be included in this sub-head. This may also include the expenditure on fittings and furnishing of the office of the KVK. 5. Purchase of vehicles: The amount allocated in this sub-head may be spent for purchasing vehicles as approved in EFC to be used in KVK. Vehicles will include a jeep and two numbers of two wheelers. Funds under this head can also be utilized for replacement of vehicle, for which approval has to be obtained from the Council for condemnation of old vehicle. The vehicles have to be maintained properly. All vehicles/tractors records including logbooks should be maintained properly. The average mileage has to be calculated and a summary statement should be recorded at the end of each month. Competent authority should attest the monthly summary. New vehicle in replacement can be purchased only after obtaining approval from ICAR. In the case of replacement of vehicle, the procedure laid down by the ICAR should be followed. The proposal has to be submitted to the ICAR in the prescribed proforma through ZPD after satisfying the conditions stipulated in the DFPRs of 1978, along with vehicle inspection report from competent authority.