 This price fluctuation often leaves farmers unable to cover their initial cultivation costs. As a result, many farmers in the village are now searching for alternative crops that offer more consistent yields and stable market prices, helping them reduce risks and secure a more reliable income. Diversification into crops like crossandra (Crossandra infundibuliformis L.), which has less market competition and stable year-round prices, offers a potential solution to these challenges. Need for diversification Diversification in agriculture emerges as important strategy for farmers to get stable and regular income. Firstly, it helps the farmers to reduce the risk, and protect them from price fluctuations and adverse climatic conditions. This enables farmers to avoid Indian Farming 33 November 2024 market volatility associated with prices. Additionally, it also optimizes resource-use and makes ecosystems more resilient. Adopting crops like crossandra provide consistent income along with regular market demand. Crop challenges and prospects Shri Srinivas, a diligent and forward-thinking farmer of Gangupally village in Pudur Mandal, Vikarabad district, Telangana, has been farming for more than 15 years. He has extensive expertise in cultivating numerous flowers crops, particularly marigold and chrysanthemum, which had witnessed the ups and downs of floriculture. Despite his efforts and expertise, he constantly faced market price changes. When the market was oversupplied with flowers, prices plummeted substantially, leaving him with inadequate income to recover his initial investments. This fluctuation caused major financial stress, and he started looking for more reliable and profitable options. Driven by his rational and pragmatic approach to farming, Shri Srinivas began exploring alternative crops that could provide a more consistent income. By understanding the problem situation, scientist of Farmer FIRST Programme (FFP) advised him to take up the crossandra cultivation owing to its high production and stable market prices. Crossandra infundibuliformis L., the firecracker flower, is a species of flowering plants in the family Acanthaceae, native to southern India and Sri Lanka. Popularly, it is known as Kanakambara in the southern part of India. In India, ~ 3.05 lakhs ha of land is under cultivation as loose flowers. In terms of production, 23.01 lakh metric tonnes of loose flowers are being produced from 3.05 lakhs ha of land per year. In Telangana, ~ 4 thousand acres of land is under floriculture with a production of ~ 11,000 metric tonnes of cut flowers and 19,000 metric tonnes of loose flowers. Among these loose flowers, crossandra is an important loose flower majorly grown in a few pockets of southern India (National Horticulture Board, 2019-20). In crossandra, there are numerous varieties with different flower colours like red, blue, orange, etc., which are available but mostly farmers grow orange colour variety.