 Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2580 Feeding of wild mint against gas problem in animals The practice of feeding wild mint to animal for curing gas problem is traditionally known to the farmers and it is in use for long time all over Jammu region. Wild mint is fed to the animals suffering from stomach and gas problems. This helps in easing the problem of animals by providing quick relief through the release of the gases. Keywords: wild mint, gas Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2653 Cure of bloat in cattle by using asasogho / gakhro Leaves of a vegetable called asasogho/ gakhro (Hipiscus sasparisa) are used by the local farmers for the treatment of bloat in cattle. The dried leaves of this plant are soaked in hot water for some time and little quantity of salt is added. When it gets cool, it is strained and the filtrate is fed to the sick animal. The practice has been found to be effective in curing the sickness at Chumukedima of Dimapur district in Nagaland. Keyword: asasogho, gakhro, bloat, salt Shri Khamo Semy Chumukedima, Dimapur (Nagaland) 2532 Use of thalaisuzhi elai for treatment of indigestion in cattle Farmers of Thiruppathur village are using thalaisuzhi elai leaves for treatment of indigestion in cattle since 5 years. The paste of leaves of thalaisuzhi elai (250 g) is made. This paste is mixed with sufficient quantity of water and it is administered orally. It is given twice daily in morning and evening. Keywords: thalaisuzhi elai, indigestion in cattle Shri A. Balamurugan S/o Shri V. Alagu S.V. Manglalam, Thiruppathur, Sivagangai (Tamil Nadu) 2498 Treatment of stomach problem in cattle Stomach problem in cattle occurs due to eating of moist grass. The main symptoms of the problem are swelling of stomach, animals do not take fodder and salivation persists. A majority of the farmers of Mumta village of Kangra Shri Rajeev Kumar Room no 32 D, NBH II Hostel, Himachal Pradesh University, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) district in Himachal Pradesh treat the animals with stomach problem by feeding a mixture prepared from 20 g nutmeg, and 50 g each of onion, garlic and tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and thymol (Carum copticum). The ingredients are ground properly and mixed with 300 ml water. This treatment is given orally to the cattle with bamboo sticks. Keywords: stomach problem, moist grass, nutmeg, onion, garlic, tobacco, thymol 171 005 2600 Curing animals from gastric problem This practice of curing animals suffering from gastric problem is prevalent in Dandi village of Doda district in Jammu and Kashmir.