 Automated Surge-flow System Developed for Irrigating Furrows The system consists of an inlet water-tank and a surge irrigation pipe with 10 outlets spaced 60-cm apart. Portable multi-outlet irrigation system has been designed to apply water in furrows. It was designed to operate 5 outlets at a time for a prefixed surge-cycle time and number of surge cycles. The combination of 1.5 lps (litres per second) stream size, 0.5 CR and 15 min CT (cycle time) was found optimum for surge irrigation system. Multiple outlet size was 25 mm dia to deliver 1.5 lps discharge into furrows. The velocity of the flow in furrows (36 cm/s) was found within permissible limits of non-erosion for vertisols. Main pipe was 100 mm in dia, selected for carrying a total of 7.5 lps supplied discharge with an allowable velocity of 2.5 m/s in the PVC pipes. Automation system for the surge irrigation system includes surge timer, surge counter, inlet solenoid valve (75 mm dia), 10 solenoid valves (25 mm dia) for outlets, water-level sensor and electronic hooter. When water level in supply tank reaches EFFICIENT FILTER AND TAR-CRACKING DEVICE FOR THE ENGINE-QUALITY PRODUCER GAS Tar-cracking device The system has been developed to achieve the desired residence time of the gases in the cracking unit (10 seconds) and also for maintaining its temperature at 900°C. The device is a rectangle of 150 mm × 150 mm × 450 mm. Electrical heaters of 5.2-kW rating were fitted on the device. The gases from the gasifier were analyzed for tar level before their entry either to tar-cracking unit or to filter. Gases leaving tar-cracking unit or filter were passed through another condenser for measuring tar present in the gases coming out from the cracking or filtering system. Gas temperature is monitored after tar- cracking system and condenser outlet. Evaluation of tar-cracking device The selected Downdraft Gasifier was tested on wood chips for analyzing its tar output. The wood used was 20–30 mm in length. The moisture content of the wood was found between 10.1 and 10.9%. The tar generated from gasifier varied from 1.7 to 2.1 g/m3. The tar-cracking unit fitted with electrical heaters and insulated from outside for preventing heat loss was tested. The electrical power consumption was found to vary from 4.7 to 4.9 kW. The gasifier and tar-cracking unit were connected to assess catalysts used for tar- cracking. Evaluation of tar filter A sand-filter has been developed. The filter is of 80 mm dia and consists of a sieve for holding sand-bed of 50-mm thickness. The water below the sieve was kept for 50 mm height to impregnate gases in the water column. The effectiveness of the tar filter for tar absorption was assessed by drawing part of the gases generated from gasifier to filter. Tar content after tar- cracking unit varied between 28 and 44 mg/m3, which was considered on the higher side. Tar reduction up to 89.2 to 91.9% could be achieved in the filter.