 Hatkangale, Dist. Kolhapur. The Asst. Horticulturist of the AIRCPTC appraised the farmer’s group and the Krishi Sevak, Wakawali regarding tuber crop cultivation, under programme organized by the Sub Divisional Agriculture Officer, Dapoli. Dr. P.V. Salvi, Dr. S.B. Kadrekar, Former Vice Chancellors, Dr B.S. Konkan Krishi Vidyapeeth, Dapoli, Mr. M.K. Moghe and S.P. Pakhre, Horticulturists, Indian Petro Chemicals, Nagothane, Raigud Dist., Mr. Ashok Lokhande, Superintendent Agriculture Officer, Thane and Mr. Satpal Singh, D.I.G. Konkan Division, Navi, Mumbai visited the tuber crops centre to know the tuber crops and their technologies. • Radio/T.V talks were made on different tuber crops and their pests/diseases `1by the Scientists of the centre to popularize tuber crops. Dholi • The Scientists of AICRP(TC ) participated in three Kisan Melas at Headquarter, Research Centre and KVK’s during 2004‐05 and 2005‐06. The live specimens of high yielding varieties of sweet potato, yambean, Colocasia, elephant foot yam, cassava and Dioscorea were exhibited. Leaflets/folders describing details about production and protection technologies were distributed to the farmers. The Scientists also participated in Kisan Gosthi and replied the questions of the farmers related to tuber crops and delivered two separate sessions on cultivation of yam bean and improved package of practices of taro through Doordarshan Kendra, Patna. www.icar.org.in 18 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Horticulture Ranchi • Varieties of tuber crops viz. elephant foot yam, sweet potato, cassava, colocasia (Arvi & Bunda) were exhibited in Agrotech Kisan Mela and Horticultural show organized at Birsa Agricultural University campus, Ranchi. Improved technologies in tuber crop cultivation were demonstrated through charts, posters and photographs. Large number of farmers from the different districts of Jharkhand visited the stall. TV/Radio talks, Phone‐in programme on tuber crops etc. were made by different Scientists to popularize tuber crops. Kalyani • One day farmers’ Training on Tuber Crops was organized on 18th March 2005. A folder in Bengali (Regional language) on agrotechniques and crop protection of important tuber crops in West Bengal was released during the Farmers’ Training. Other extension and social activities including distribution /selling of planting materials to the progressive farmers have been going on. Two training programmes were organised in Howrah district on taro, EFY cultivation and sweet potato vine production. Udainarayanpur was identified as a very potential zone for taro cultivation. Agricultural fair was held in Howrah district from 15th to 17th December 05 and Kalyani Centre actively participated in the programme and arranged interaction with farmers. All the materials were exhibited and farmers expressed high interest in EFY seed corm production. The cultivars also have been provided to ‘Ashalaya’ Don Bosco, Nadia.