 It is widely noticeable that farm women practice subsistence traditional farming mostly due to lack of awareness and sometimes due to poor reliability on modern farming technologies. Considering the significance of farm women as potential stakeholders of Indian agriculture and keeping in view their issues and needs, ICAR- CIWA (Central Institute for Women in Agriculture), implemented an ICAR-NASF (National Agricultural Science Fund) sponsored project in a cluster of two villages, viz. Sankilo and Tentalpur under Nischintakoili block of Cuttack district of Odisha with the major objective of women empowerment by reducing the gender gap in agriculture by promoting livelihood in rice-vegetable based farming. In this context, a gender sensitive agri-horti livelihood enhancement model was developed, which appeared to be instrumental in enhancing farm income of small and marginal women farmers by increasing the production potential of the major crops of the region. The model targeted to bridge the yield gap in paddy and several periodic vegetable crops through potential varieties and package of practices. Considering the effective spatial and temporal utilization, a second crop (black gram), mostly relay to paddy was also introduced as an additional income generating dimension for farm families. The model claims to be gender sensitive as it adopts a women-based, women- centric and women-responsive approach in every step of problem prioritization, constraint analysis, technology dissemination and final demonstration. With farm women Indian Farming 38 March 2023 as the major clientele, a considerate approach was used, which were resource inclusive, simple and easy to adopt. The choice of varieties was on the basis of location-specific performance, yield potential and market preferability. A strategic approach was adopted in initially creating a gender sensitized environment, where in the women farmers were gradually molded and made adaptable with the extended technologies. The entire period of model demonstration was fostered with concurrent training, skill impartation and complete hand holding. The output of the model in terms of income enhancement through enhanced production resulted in a stratum of socio-economic upliftment among the farm women of the region. The gender sensitive agri- horti livelihood enhancement model though a stepping stone in livelihood enhancement in farming, embarked many success stories. Supplementing rice farming with potential varieties and technologies As a normal cultivation practice, the women of adopted villages tend to use traditional varieties year after year, which results in decline of yield potential over years of cultivation. To compliment the rice farming in the region with a perspective to make it lucrative, a strategy was adopted to introduce some promising potential cultivars.