 However, there is always a chance that native insect species prevalent in the region starts exploring the oil palm and in due course of time some may get adapted to oil palm and become the pests. Moreover, there is always a possible chance of geographical expansion by the existing insect pests of oil palm. Thus, the two major pests of importance in oil palm viz., Rhinoceros beetle Oryctes rhinoceros and Rugose spiraling whitefly are discussed here. Rhinoceros beetle: Adult beetles bore into the palms at the base of the spear cluster to consume the sap and tender parts of the leaves when it is not opened. Through the outermost petiole of the spear cluster, the beetles penetrate to the inner most unopened leaves, leaving it permanently marked with a hole. Due to this boring, wedge-shaped gap in the leaf silhouette and a hole in the petiole are clearly visible once the leaves are opened from the whorl which are the common characteristic symptoms. Young palms exhibit much more severe damage at the base of the spears as compared to mature palms. Peak period of adult emergence and activity is seen during South-West Monsoon (June-September) period. Incidence is more in oil palm plantations adjoining coconut gardens. Predators such as Santalus parallelus, Harpalus sp., Scarites sp., Pteropsophus occipitalis and Agrypnus bifoveatus sp. nr. are known to attack the grub stages of rhinoceros beetle. Detection of all possible breeding sites of the pest (manure pits, decomposing organic matters, dead logs, etc.) and monitoring the adult population are essential components of the pest management. Pheromone traps (Rhinolure/ oryctalure) installed at a height of 10 ft. @ one trap/2 ha can be used for monitoring the beetle population. All potential breeding sites are eliminated/ destroyed by entomopathogen, Metarhizium anisopliae. The Baculovirus of Oryctes one of the most successful microbial control agents employed for the bio-suppression of rhinoceros beetle infesting coconut. Release of the infected beetles is the most economical, effective and easy method for dissemination of the viral inoculum into the natural population of the beetles. Rugose spiraling whitefly: It is a serious pest of both nursery and main plantations. In India, the pest was first observed at Pollachi, Tamil Nadu during August 2016 on coconut. Due to its polyphagous nature, the pest has attained a key pest status in horticulturally important crops. Moreover, its special preference to plantation crops made oil palm as a preferential crop, after coconut causing substantial damage. It causes significant damage to both nursery seedlings and adult palms by sucking the sap from the underside of leaflets. Except for the rainy season, the pest is seen throughout the year with its peak incidence from late winters to late summer months (November to May). After emergence from the egg, the nymphs become sedentary and suck the sap from the leaves in a congregated manner.