 Joshi is former Director-South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute, Washington DC. His research areas include technology policy, market and institutional economics. 149 Climate Smart Agriculture Concerted efforts at the global and at the national levels are underway to minimize impact of climate change. The Paris Agreement is committed to limit global warming to below 2 degrees Celsius; preferably 1.5 degrees Celsius. Sustainable Development Goal 13 (Climate Action) would focus on taking urgent action to combat climate change. Technologies, policies, institutions and infrastructure would play a key role in minimizing impact of climate change and building in resilience in the agriculture sector. Climate smart interventions would lead to increased yields and farm incomes, besides reducing risk arising due to climate change and mitigate greenhouse gas emission. With climate smart agriculture, yields can be increased to 10-17 per cent and cost reduction would be up to 10 per cent. It would also save energy and increase rate of returns on investment in agriculture. Policies such as ‘Prime Minister’s Irrigation Scheme’, ‘National mission on Micro Irrigation’, ‘Soil Health Cards’ and Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme, would increase farmers’ incomes, minimize risk and reduce greenhouse gases to minimize climate risk. Key issues in upscaling climate smart agriculture (CSA) include limited resources; as government has limited resources to allocate in multiple areas and CSA being a new concept, there is lesser expertise in this area and thus project formulation and implementation would be different and chances of failure would be relatively more. CSA is location specific and thus results would vary from location to location. Also, upscaling processes and mechanisms are to be evolved; as there are no guidelines so far for CSA. There is a need to mainstream climate actions in development activities, research and extension agenda and investment priorities through convergence of government programmes and policies. A strong partnership at the global and regional levels would facilitate exchange of best practices, attract climate finance and enhance capacity of all stakeholders. Key takeaways A strong partnership at the global level and at the regional level can facilitate exchange of best practices and enhance capacity of all stakeholders to minimize impacts of climate change. Need is to explore and focus on promising efficient, sustainable, resilient and eco- friendly climate smart technologies. 150 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURAL INTENSIFICATION FOR IMPROVING FOOD SECURITY AND CLIMATE RESILIENCE P.V. Vara Prasad Sustainable agricultural intensification (SAI), an all-inclusive platform and approach, focuses on increasing agricultural productivity from the existing farm lands without any negative impacts on environment.