 Out of the above mentioned antibiogram trials using various sub-fractions, ethyl acetate, butenol and petroleum ether showed better anti-microbial properties. However, ethyl methyl ketone and chloroform did not show any antimicrobial property . Clinical study: The clinical study was conducted on 14 clinical cases (Table 4, Fig. 2 ) which were precipitated during monsoon season in buffaloes suffering with pneumonic pasteurellosis and showing all pathgnomonic signs of disease, which consisted of high rise of temperature, respiratory distress, nasal discharge, swelling on throat etc. The animals were completely off fed. Of these 14 cases of buffaloes treated with enrofloxacin, Avil, paracetamol with kala jeera paste (Fig. 3) applied on throat showed 85.71% recovery, whereas those treated with veterinary drug alone gave 50% recovery. This clinical study clearly indicated that kala jeera extract paste when applied on throat along with veterinary drugs in clinical cases of HS in buffalos helped speedy and higher percentage of recovery. Fig. 2. Clinical case of HS in buffalo Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY CONCLUSION The in-vitro antibiogram study and in vivo clinical studies in field, showed that application of paste of kala jeera (Veronina anthelmintica) on swollen throat area in Haemorrhagic septicaemia (HS) disease in buffaloes acted as adjunct therapy along with conventionally antibacterial treatment. It helped in speedy recovery from the disease. The ITK, which has been claimed by the discloser, proved scientifically good in clinical management of HS in buffaloes. Fig. 3. Ointment of kala jeera extract Composition of ointment Crude extract 10 g Dimethyl sulphoxide : 5% (v/v) Ethyl alcohol 2% (w/v) Sodium borate 2% (w/w) White paraffin wax 100 g Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser Location of use of the ITK Geographical indicators Experimenters : 1590 Technique of curing bone fracture in animals : Harjore is a perennial climber, used in the treatment of bone fracture in animals as well as in human being. This practice is being used by the villagers of Samtoli village of Simdega district in Jharkhand for the last many years. Paste is prepared by crushing the harjore plant and it is applied on the fracture part which is then tied along with sticks. At every 3 days interval it is replaced by fresh harjore paste and this process is continued 2 to 3 times. : Ms Sushmita Khalkho, C/o Dr Niva Bara, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi 834 006 (Jharkhand) : Samtoli, Simdega, Simdega (Jharkhand) : Harjore, a climber having fleshy stone and quadrangular stem is found throughout the hotter parts of India and Sri Lanka. : Birsa Agricultural University (BAU) Dr B.K. Roy, Associate Professor, Department of Pharmacology; Dr K.K.