 He used locally available feed resources for feeding his piglets like cereals (Maize, paddy husk and rice bran), kitchen waste, vegetable waste (leaves of Cabbage, Cauliflower and Knolkhol Brassica oleracea, locally available plants (Colacasia, Raipatta, Sisnu, Caina etc.), butchers house bye products (soup of head and feet of beef, poultry intestine etc.). He cooked all the feed stuffs and small amount of salt is invariably added before feeding. He made available fresh and clean water at all times in pucca made watering and feeding trough. Mr. Rai also periodically supplemented mineral mixture and vitamins to his pigs. He also vaccinated his pigs against swine fever. At first farrowing he got a total of 14 piglets from his 2 sows after 12 months of rearing. Income generated per annum by selling the product vis-à-vis cost of production per unit: Enterprise Breed No. of pig Expenditure (Rs.) in cost of piglets and conc. feed Income (Rs.) From sale of piglets of 1st farrowing Profit (Rs.) B:C ratio Small scale pig breeding farm Large White Yorkshire (LWY) 2 (Female +1 (Male) 18,300/- 44,800/- 26,500/- 2.45 Ms. Pabitra Sharma inside her Poultry House Eggs of Vanaraja / Gramapriya 491 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Tamil Nadu State is located in the Northern hemisphere in the hot zone between 8° and 13° N latitude and between 78° and 80° E longitude. Tamil Nadu is the 11th largest State in India by area and the 7th most populous State. The State lies on the eastern coast of the southern Indian peninsula neighboured by Puducherry, Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh States. Agriculture is the major occupation in Tamil Nadu. The principal food crops include paddy, millets and pulses. Commercial crops include sugarcane, cotton, sunflower, coconut, cashew, chillies, gingelly and groundnut. Plantation crops are tea, coffee, cardamom and rubber. Major forest produces are timber, sandalwood, pulp wood and fuel wood. Tamil Nadu occupies a premier position in the production and extensive application of bio-fertilizers. Efforts are on to improve farming technologies so as to increase yields in the low rainfall areas of the State. Major Industries in the State are cotton, heavy commercial vehicles, auto components, railway coaches, power pumps, leather tanning industries, cement, sugar, paper, automobiles and safety matches. Tamil Nadu is the 5th largest contributor to India’s GDP and one of the most urbanized States in India. The State has the highest number (10.56 per cent) of business enterprises in India, compared to the population share of about six per cent. In Agriculture front, the Government of Tamil Nadu has resolved to usher in a Second Green Revolution formulated to achieve equitable, competitive and sustainable growth in agriculture. There are about 82 lakh farm holdings in the State who depend on agriculture and allied sectors for their livelihoods whose income has to be at least doubled in the next five years.