 The e-publishing system is used by readers, authors and research reviewers globally from 184 countries, 24×7, through Internet for accessing and publishing research in ICAR’s research journals.Two new online journals namely Indian Journal of Agroforestry and Annals of Plant Protection Sciences etc., were hosted online on the e-Publishing portal http:/ /epubs.icar.org.in/ejournal, a unified gateway of research journals of ICAR. Presently a total of 42 research journals are hosted. Other important activities undertaken by AKMU were: Management and maintenance of web-based e-Publishing system of ICAR; An android app called KISAAN-Krishi Integrated Solution for Agri Apps Navigation, which provides an integrated interface for more than 110 apps in agriculture and allied areas prepared by ICAR institutions,was developed.It is a multi-lingual app. Technological backstopping provided to thirty six professional agricultural societies for e-Publishing of their journals using online e-Publishing system developed and maintained by AKMU, ICAR. ❑ 14. Technology Assessment, Demonstration and Capacity Development The frontline extension systems as part of National Agricultural Research System of the country, has taken up activities through Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) and other programmes for application of farm technologies in farmers’ fields. Besides taking up technology assessment, demonstration and capacity development programmes during the year, the other initiatives such as Farmer FIRST, Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA), Cluster Frontline Demonstration of Pulses and Oilseeds, National Innovations in Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA), Pulses Seed Hubs, KVK Portal, ATICs, Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav and awareness creation about mega government schemes etc. were also implemented to espouse the cause of farming community through technology application with their active participation. Technology assessment Technology assessment is one of the main activities of KVKs to identify the location specificity of agricultural technologies developed by National Agricultural Research Systems (NARS) under various farming systems. The details of technologies assessed at different locations are as follows: Assessment: A total of 4,750 technologies of various crops were assessed at 15,501 locations by KVKs through conducting 24,016 trials on the farmers’ field under thematic areas namely cropping systems, drudgery reduction, farm machineries, integrated crop management, integrated disease management, integrated nutrient management, integrated pest management, integrated weed management, processing and value addition, resource conservation technologies, seeds and planting materials production, storage techniques besides varietal assessment for cereals, pulses, oilseeds, fruits, vegetable crops and commercial crops. Varietal evaluation was the major theme of technology assessment under which 1,091 technologies were assessed through 5,614 trials.