 The inter-institutional platform can be used to provide comprehensive technology backstopping services for the line departments engaged in implementing development and technology dissemination initiatives. Targeted infrastructure development for value addition and post-harvest management: Value addition activities, such as processing and packaging, can help to increase the income of farmers and create employment opportunities in the region. Infrastructure development with a special focus on facilitating such activities needs to be targeted. Availability of a strategically located network of packhouses and cold storage facilities in major production zones can attract more interest in such value addition activities. This will also facilitate the establishment of food processing industries based on spice commodities and development of entrepreneurship. Provide handholding services to producer collectives and promote market linkages: The farmer collectives across the country, are playing an increasingly important role in enhancing the efficiency of input sourcing, aggregation of produce and finding more attractive markets for the produce. There should be a dedicated agency for handholding development and establishment of farmer collectives. The channelling of institutional support to these farmer collectives should be seen as ‘partnerships for progress’. Networking among the farmer collectives should also be facilitated. Stakeholder network for promoting market linkages: The public institutional stakeholders like MDoNER, The Spices Board, ICAR-IISR, etc., can play a crucial role in promoting market linkages between spice farmers and buyers, both domestic and international. Strategic deployment of spice parks, organizing buyer-seller interface meetings, promotion of Northeast brand at the global level, handholding farmer for adopting Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) for production of clean and food safe spices, facilitating exports etc., can help the NER to emerge as a preferred global destination for sourcing high quality spices. The spices sector in the NER is characterized by its versatile nature and ability to adapt to changing technology and market landscape. The spices sector has several inherent strengths, which can be further leveraged for making this sector, the engine of agricultural growth in the region. Cohesive policy design, commitment to technology-based spice production and efficient support from public funded institutional stakeholders along with innovative approaches for providing support for entrepreneurship development and marketing will transform the spices sector in the Northeastern Region of India. For further interaction, please write to: 1Director, ICAR-Indian Institute of Spices Research, Kozhikode, Kerala 673 012 Email: director.spices@icar.gov.