 The ICAR, being the premier organization in the field of agricultural research, education and extension, initiated efforts to develop State-specific DFI strategy documents focusing on technologies, technology delivery mechanisms and market linkages. The State Coordination Committees (SCCs) were constituted under the chair of a Vice Chancellor of an Agricultural University in the State with a Director of an ICAR Institute as convener. The members of the SCC included all other Vice Chancellors and Directors of ICAR Institutes in the State, nominees from the Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, Ministry of Food Processing Industries and Ministry of Water Resources, and senior officers of the State Development Departments. Besides, representatives from CGIAR system, Commodity Boards and Farmer Organizations were co-opted as additional members as per the need. In devising the strategy, the SCCs took into consideration the agro-ecologies, natural resource endowments, land use and cropping patterns, productivity gaps, biotic and abiotic constraints, development indicators, infrastructure and government programs. The State-specific documents provided the roadmap for extension system to ensure delivery of technologies and good agricultural practices. Doubling Farmers Income xvi Towards achieving the goal of DFI, the ICAR utilized its network of KVKs. To operationalize the goal-achieving efforts on ground by the frontline extension system, the Agricultural Extension Division of ICAR guided each KVK to identify at least two villages in a contiguous area and develop a plan for DFI through interaction with farmers and other stakeholders. Baseline surveys were conducted by the KVKs in the identified villages to record the status of the existing crops, varieties, farming systems, productivity levels, and accordingly made the interventions. By virtue of having a multi-disciplinary team of scientists, the KVKs devised and standardized location-specific models for overall agricultural development. Agriculture, horticulture, livestock production, sericulture, supplementary enterprises, processing and value addition, and farm-based income generating activities comprised the focus of the KVKs. Improved crop varieties, soil and water management practices, low-cost and no-cost production technologies, eco-friendly and effective pest management strategies, farm mechanization, alternative crops and cropping patterns, integrated farming systems, low-cost processing technologies, intensive/semi-intensive livestock production, fisheries, and diversification into high-value crops like vegetables, fruits and flowers, were the major interventions. Small-scale processing and value addition, vermi-composting, mushroom production, nursery raising and beekeeping were promoted as per the needs and interests of the farming community.