 Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir)  leaving there by, some tobacco constituents in the water, which acts as repellent/ insecticide. Drenching of hukka water, once in a week keeps various insect-pests away from the nursery. Hukka water is sprayed on transplanted seedlings also. Keywords: vegetable nursery, hukka, drenching, repellent/ insecticide 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2492 Cultivation of vegetables in sandy river bank Trenches are prepared with the help of spade in the river bank. The length of trench varies from 120 to 240 feet according to length of banks. Distance between two trenches is kept 15-20 feet so that the vines may spread easily. Depth of trenches depend on water table. For assessing the water table, one pit is dug. The depth ranges from 1 to 2 feet in October, and as the water level goes down the depth is increased up to 3 feet. Vegetables such as pumpkin, bottle gourd, cucumber, khira, water melon, tomato, brinjal and capsicum are grown in this system. (a) Seeding method and seed management: For fast germination the seeds are soaked in water for 6-12 hours, tied in wet cloth and are kept in the husk, straw or farmyard manure. After germination, 3-4 seeds are seeded at a point, so that at least 2 vines may grow from there. At initial stage, water given through water cans. For tomato and capsicum, nursery is prepared in December and the seedlings are transplanted in January. (b) Use of farmyard manure and fertilizers: Generally urea is used as fertilizer. In a 120 feet long trench, 8-10 quintals FYM and 10- 20 kg urea are used. After digging the trenches, a mixture of FYM, urea and sand is filled in it and it is levelled up to the surface. (c) Insertion of grass thatches: Thatches are used to secure the vines from cold air in winter and from hot sand in summer. A shallow trench is also dug parallel to the main trench. In this, shallow trench thatches are Krishi Vigyan Kendra Choudhary Sarankul, Himachal Pradesh Agricultural University Una (Himachal Pradesh)  inserted at an angle of 45-60 degrees so that it may cover the small plants, and help the plants to escape from cold winds from north. At flowering stage, the thatch is spread over the space between two main trenches to protect the fruits and flowers from hot sand. For 125-150 feet long trench, 7-8 bundles of thatches (each bundle having weight of 18-20 kg) are required. (d) Pest and disease management: There is quite heavy infestation of pest and diseases, because of use of imbalanced fertilizer and raw farmyard manure. Generally there is quite high use of chemicals. These practices are being followed by Rai families since the seventies. They are minor in community and non resident to this place (Swa river).