 Coco peat (Coir pith): It is produced by partial decomposition of plant material under low-oxygen conditions and a by-product of the coconut industry, used widely as a substrate due to its low cost, aeration, drainage and long life. It is usually marketed in compressed bricks form to which water is added. The bricks weigh about 4–5 kg and can expand to 4–5 times of their volume once water is added after loosening them. It is advisable to use coco peat after treatment with steam or other means of disinfestation. It has a pH of about 5.0 making and contains low levels of micronutrients, but higher levels of phosphorus and potassium. Vermiculite: Vermiculite is produced by heat treatment of mica at 700 to 1000°C temperature. It is porous and light and has a water-holding capacity of three to four times of its weight. Media containing vermiculite should be mixed dry. When mixed wet, the desirable physical properties deteriorate because particles tend to collapse flat. Furthermore, vermiculite can hold positive-charged nutrients such as K, Mg and Ca. Perlite: Perlite is a natural mineral of volcanic origin which is light in weight. The pH is usually neutral to slightly alkaline. Its high porosity helps to control the water-holding capacity and aeration of the substrate. Perlite can be used alone or mixed Pro-tray or seedling trays There are two kinds of plastic trays used for raising seedlings. One tray 187 cavities of 3.75 cm (1.5``) size, whereas the other tray is having 345 cavities of 2.5 (1.0``) size. These trays help in proper germination, provide independent area for each seed to germinate, eliminate the mortality rate, maintain uniform and healthy growth of the seedlings, are easy in handling and storing, reliable and economical in transportation. These trays are fixed in thermocol trays having the same number and size of cavities before filling the media. Thermocol base provides a good insulation to help in minimizing fluctuation in root temperature. Seed sowing and application of nutrients and water The best time for seed sowing is August-September in nursery with the optimal temperature at 25-30°C at the depth of 0.5 inch in the nursery tray. First filled the tray with the mixture of root media and then the seeds are sown in the cavities (one seed in each cavities). If the seeds are of good viable capacity and not old than will take 6-10 days for germination elsewhere germination range from 15-21 days depends on the quality and genetic constituent of the seeds. Usually healthy seeds germinate without pre- soaking in normal water but in case germination hampered by internal dormancy or seed coat then 24-36 hr pre- soaking help in the uniform germination of seeds. The seedlings are ready within 25-30 days after sowing. For healthy and vigorous growth, fertigation will be promising by applying NPK 19:19:19 @ 1g per litre water once in a week at 3-4 stage of leaf through fine sprinkler.