 Jyoti plants (a); CENH3 mutant lines were used as a male parent to cross with wild-type K. Jyoti plants (b); TPS collected from berries where CENH3 mutant lines were used as female parent or male parent (c); Seedling obtained from TPS (d) and (e), which were screened for haploid induction efficiency; using FACS and Sanger sequencing (f) NCBI BLAST from AtOSD1, AtRec8, AtSPO11 and AtCENH3 sequences. Two gRNA targets were also identified in each gene and were assembled into pHSE401 CRISPR/Cas9 vector independently for MiMe and CENH3 and were confirmed by restriction digestion. Out of 32 putative transformants MiMe generated lines, 16 lines showed mutation in the region other than target area of StOSD gene, 7 lines showed mutation in StREC8 gene and only one line showed modification for StSP011 gene; however, it was present within the gene. Overall, the average editing efficiency (number of edited plants/numbers of transgenic plants) for MiMe genes was 50% for StOSD gene, 21.8% for StREC8 gene and 3% for StSP011 gene. Similarly, forty-six CENH3 edited/mutated lines were selected, in which, 35% mutation (insertions or deletions) were analysed at the target sites. Fourteen independent events for CENH3 mutation were selected and crossed with control Kufri Jyoti plants for evaluation of haploid induction efficiency. The TPS were germinated and screened for haploid induction efficiency using FACS and Sanger sequencing. Five CENH3 edited lines viz. CENH3 1a (4), CENH3 1a (32), CENH3 2a (20), CENH3 2a (19) and CENH3 1a (11) showed the 11%, 15.7%, 10.9%, 10.8% and 15.6% efficiency of diploid induction with tetraploid wild-type Kufri Jyoti respectively. 13 Salient Achievements of the Projects resultant CRISPR/Cas9-sgRNA constructs were subsequently used for transfection into in vitro cultured buffalo endometrial and luteal cells. RT-PCR data revealed that mRNA expression profile of COX-2 gene following CRISPR/Cas9 mediated editing using two gRNAs exhibited significant decline in PGF2α production and COX-2 gene expression. An inexpensive, yet efficient, methodology for microinjection of CRISPR/Cas9 constructs into mouse zygotes was developed. This methodology was applied for microinjection of PTGFS Cas9-gRNA construct into mouse embryos. For supply of zygotes, super-ovulated the female mice by intraperitoneal injections of pregnant mare serum gonadotrophin (PMSG), followed by (post 47 hrs) human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG). Following the hormonal induction of ovulation, females were allowed to mate with stud males. On the next day (0.5 dpc), the females positive for mating plug were sacrificed and dissected to obtain zygotes. Each zygote was injected with 3-5 pL of COX-2 and PTGFS Cas9-gRNA construct according to the standardized hypothetical divisions of microinjection needle. The microinjected zygotes were in vitro cultured in vitro up to the blastocyst stage. The knockout efficiency was determined using the T7 endonuclease assay.