 This machine can perform four operations viz. topping, digging, soil separation, and windrowing of onions. This machine caters to the residual problems linked with the topping and digging of onions. Working principle of onion digger with topping unit As the machine moves forward, the topping unit removes onion leaves ahead of the digging unit. When the digging unit enters the soil, the topping unit aligns with the soil surface and trims the onion leaves. Subsequently, the digging unit unearths the topped onion bulbs. These uprooted bulbs are then conveyed to the soil separation unit, where onions and soil are effectively separated. Finally, the cleaned onion bulbs are discharged at the rear of the machine by the windrowing unit. The developed machine efficiently de-tops the onion leaves and subsequently dugs the de- topped bulbs with an effective width of 750 and 650 mm respectively. It achieves a theoretical field capacity and field efficiency of 0.20 ha/h and 88.50% when machine is operating at a travel speed of 3 km/h. With the introduction of these machines, the productivity and yield of onions can be enhanced. Indian Farming 26 January 2024 Traditional (Manual method of onion harvesting) The traditional manual method of onion harvesting involves pulling out plants by hand if the soil isn’t too hard. If the soil is hard, a tool called 'khrupa' is used to dug out the crop. This process requires about 185 man-hours per hectare, accounting for 21.4% of the total cultivation cost. Then the plucked onion plants are field cured (field drying). After field curing, the onion tops are removed by hand or hand shears, which consumed about 12.5 man-hours per tonne making up 40% of the labour needed for the entire cultivation process. Successful manual harvesting depends on available labour and favourable weather conditions. However, adverse weather conditions, during field curing in summer, the outer scale of onion blisters and during winter also it is difficult. Existing method of onion harvester The various types of onion diggers have been developed across different parts of the country having different types of digging blades, and different mechanisms for soil separations. These harvesters can be front or rear-mounted to prime mover. These machines vary in function; some only unearth onion bulbs, while others handle unearthing and soil separation. However, none of the existing onion harvester addresses topping onion bulbs. This step still requires labour for topping and also onion collection. The process flow chart of different methods of onion harvesting (manual, mechanical and developed machine) is shown in Fig. 2. Developed onion harvester with topping unit The topping unit of the developed machine consists of a standard cutter bar with a 750 mm width of topping; this arrangement was done with 76.2 mm stroke lengths of serrated cutter bar blades and a ledger plate arrangement for onion topping.