8 Merit promotion or grant of advance increment(s) to the successful personnel will be given with effect from the date following the date of completion of the five years of service in the grade. This amendment was made effective from 1 1.1995. (!CAR letter No.14(4)/94-Estt IV dated I February 1995). 6.9 For determining the ehgihility ofa person for the grant of meril promotion or advance increments, the entire penod of the service in the grade including the service rendered in the pre-revised scale of pay will be counted. (i) The service rendered by an individual in another Institute from where he comes on transfer on compassionate ground will be taken into account for computing the ehgibility period of5 years. (ICAR letter No.7-5/83-Per.IJI dated 27 August 1984). (ii) For the purpose of computing the prescribed period for assessment, the period of ad-hoc service in the same grade and also the period of leave, including srudy leave/EOL, and period spent on deputation, will also be counted. (iii) However, it maybe added that the following periods are not to be counted for computing the prescribed period of eligibility for assessment/promotion to the next higher grade. ICAR HANDBOOK Of TECHNICAL SERVJCES (a) Period ofsuspension treated as dies-non for all pufJJoses inclu- sive of assessment under Technical Service Rules; (b) Period of reduction to lower grade as measure of penalty. (!CAR letter No.7-34/80-Per.llI dated 19 May 1982). 6.10 The assessment of eligible persons for merit promotion/grant of advance increment(s) in Categories I and II will he done by a Selection Committee, to be constituted by the Appointing Authority. The Chainnan of the Committee will be a person from outside the Institute/Headquarters, to be nominated by the Chairman of the Agricultural Scientists' Recruitmem Board. 6.11 For persons in Category III, the assessment will be done by an Assessment Committee to be constitmed in consultation with the Chairman, Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board. 6. 12 A person who is not found fit for merit promotion or for grant of advance incrernenl(s) may be considered again at a subsequent stage or stages. Notec Such persons will be considered every year till such time as they are adjudged suitable for promotion to the next higher grade. The technical personnel once promoled will, however. be eligible for promotion to the next higher grade/gran1 of advance mcrement(s) only after they have put in prescribed period of service m that grade and not earlier. (!CAR letter No.7-4179-Per.lll dated IO September 1979). 6.13 The procedure for assessment of persons for grant of merit promotion or advance increments has been detailed in Appendix III. Note, Proforma for special information to be rumishe<i by technical personnel for their subsequent assessment for grant of merit promo1ion 1s given in Appendix VII. Promotion 7.