 The village will maintain a village theatre, school and public hall. It will have its own waterworks, ensuring clean water supply”. 184 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Gandhiji realised that the western influence of industrialization would undoubtedly wreck the structure of the village and the economy. He was completely aware that this wave would completely wipe out the village industries and would prevent its growth. The idea of rural reconstruction had focused on ‘Village Swaraj and Swadeshi Movement’ (Raman 1942). The core concepts of Village Swaraj as listed by Gandhiji were swadeshi, full employment, trusteeship, labour, bread, decentralization, self sufficiency, equality, Nai Talim and so on. Thus, the conception of the ideal village of Gandhiji’s vision was a holistic one, comprising of physical, social, political, economic and educational aspects. The holistic ideas of Gandhiji for rural reconstruction are discussed below: 3.1. Trusteeship: Gandhiji said that rich would be the stewards of trusts who should take care of the needs of the community in general. Gandhiji was deeply moved by the hardship and wretched circumstances of the rural people, due to the centralization of wealth in the hands of the bourgeoisie class. In his words “everything on this earth belongs to God and is from God. Therefore, it was for this people as a whole not for a particular individual. Everybody on this earth has a natural right to at least the basic necessities of life, just like the birds and the beasts have. If somehow, an individual had more than his proportionate share, he was a trustee of that portion for God’s people” (Gandhi 1947). He argued that the rich would not be able to amass the wealth without the support of the poor. Hence the poor must use the weapon of non-violence and non-cooperation to part the wealth equally, which in turn ensures prosperity. 3.2. Swadeshi: Swadeshi is the ethical principle underpinning an autonomous self-sufficient economic system. In Mahatma’s words Swadeshi means “spirit in us, which restrict us to the use and service of our immediate surroundings to the exclusion of the more remote” (Gandhi 1942). From an economic point of view, conforming to Swadeshi doctrine creates the opportunity for a democratized self-sufficient economy. Buyers and sellers would have a stake for each other and collaborate each other in the upliftment of local areas by utilizing the local resources. He insisted that only those commodities that cannot be produced within a particular village should be brought from other village. This would create a strong love for local products and an altruistic behaviour towards the neighbours, which in turn would raise the standards of local farmers and artisans (Joshi 2002).