 Name and address of the discloser: Shri B.B. Khutal, Solapur (Maharashtra). Location of use of the ITK The practice is found in semi-arid tract of western Maharashtra specifically in parts of Pune, Satara, Solapur and Ahmednagar districts. Experimenters Maharashtra Animal Science and Fishery Sciences University (MASFSU) Dr. S.N. Patil, Associate Professor, Dr. V.S. Panchbhai, Professor, Dr. M.S. Dhakate, Associate Professor, Dr. B.M. Gahlod, Assistant Professor and Dr. S.V. Upadhye, Assistant Professor, Department of Surgery; and Dr. A.G. Bhandarkar, Associate Professor, Department of Pathology, Nagpur Veterinary College, Nagppur 440 006 (Maharashtra). Ch. Sarwan Kumar, Krishi Vishwavidyalaya (CSKHPKV) Dr. A.C. Varshney, Professor and Head, Dr. S.P. Tyagi, Assistant Professor and Dr. M.S. Kanwar, Associate Professor, Department of Surgery and Radiology, College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Palampur 176 062 (Himachal Pradesh). Results and discussion Out of the 10 clinical cases of wounds treated at MASFSU, four wounds were fresh, covered with blood clots, whereas six were contaminated with dirt and foreign material. In treatment group of juice of ekdandi, wounds were fresh showing discharge of exudate, and seven were contaminated; whereas in Neosporin treatment group the four wounds were fresh covered with clotted blood, and six were contaminated with mud and foreign particles. The wounds treated with juice of ridge gourd leaves showed the appearance of granulation tissue on day 6 after-treatment, whereas it was observed on day 5 after-treatment in those treated with juice of ekdandi leaves. At CSKHPKV, the wounds treated with ridge gourd extract (group C) were relatively drier when compared with other two groups on day 3 after operation. The wounds in this group were covered with a relatively stronger transparent scab; whereas the wound covering in of the two groups were too fragile which readily peeled off during dressing change-over. The wound edges were quite raw with fragile vascular bed in group A, which bled easily during even a slight manipulation In group B, though the bleeding tendency was not as marked as in group A, they still showed intermittent raw patches over wound surfaces. Exudation and inflammatory changes of wounds were also least in group C and almost comparable in other two group at this stage. The juice of ridge gourd and ekdandi leaves as well as aqueous cold and hot water extracts of fresh leaves of ridge gourd showing anti-bacterial potential were further tested at monthly interval. However, a month- old juice and aqueous extract did not show any anti- bacterial activity. These findings suggest that juice and aqueous extracts should be used immediately after its preparation in order to control the infection from the wounds. 34 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture A. Ridge gourd (day 7) D.Ridge gourd (day 14) G. Neosporin (day 14) B. Ekdandi (day 7) E. Ridge gourd (day 14) H. Ridge gourd (day 21) J.