 Ergonomic Management of Drudgery ● The physiological stresses on the body were very high and severe for farm AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT 163 ● The women emerged as the joint decision-makers in all spheres of activities with variation in decision- making roles with male or female members that are governed by the nature of activity Dyes used on wool yarn. Flowers of Dhawadi (left). Flowers of Kesula (right) activities performed by rural women due to faulty postures, during task performance. ● The physiological and muscular stresses were found to be high and above the permissible limits for performing dairy related tasks and household activities like fetching water, collecting fuel, mud plastering of the house and washing clothes. ● The workload carried by women was beyond the permissible limits, which adversely affected their health, and majority of the sampled women fell in the category of normal or average health status. ● The activities performed by women either in squatting or bending or standing cum bending postures increased body stresses and decreased work output in absence of use of ergonomic friendly tools and implements. Nutritional Security for Human Health in Agrarian Ecosystem ● The crystalline salt that is used in rural home is devoid of adequate amount of iodine. ● The locally available samples of indigenous foods that are used in rural homes have been analyzed and found to be rich sources of β-carotene and ascorbic acid. ● Wide variations were observed in retinal content of milk and milk products (60 fold) and meat/fish and poultry (6 fold) indicating effect of cooking/ processing conditions on retinal content. Comprehensive Child Care through Farm Creche ● The intervention provided to infants as stimulation program and supplementary feeding in creche and nutrition education imparted to mothers brought about a significant improvement in the psycho-motor and mental development of infants. ● A significant improvement took place in weight of the infants through supplementary feeding in creche in experimental group as compared to control group. ● A significant improvement in home environment was also observed with a significant increase in number of toys and play material provided to infants for stimulating their development. ● The feeding habits and quantum/quality of nutritious foods consumed was significantly better in the group that participated in intervention programme. ● The efficacy of intervention programme proved to be effective in optimizing the physical, psycho-motor, mental, language and socio-emotional development of infants. ● A module for establishment and management of creche as an early childhood cost effective program has been developed.