 Journal of King Saud University – Science 35 (2023) 102619 4 S. nigra, S. albogriseolus, and S. pilosus, were represented by single nodes which separate in different sub cluster. The larger cluster was represented by Streptomyces bohaiensis which separates in subcluster 1C, which is also represented by S. daghestanicus. Major cluster 2 is represented by the genus Nocardiopsis and it has been divided into two sub clusters, 2A and 2B. Sub cluster 2A presents all Nocardiopsis ﬂavescens and single node Nocardiopsis listeria while sub cluster 2B represents all Nocardiopsis dassonvillei. The phylogenetic tree presenting the relationship among the 45 strains of the genus Streptomyces is presented in Fig. 2. It showed the grouping of sequences into three distinct groups I, II, and III. Group I present a maximum of 17 Streptomyces strains; all three strains of S.araujoniae isolated from three different crop ﬁelds which showed 99 % sequence similarity formed a distinct branch in this group. Similarly, in this group S. griseus, S. anulatus, S. micro- ﬂavus and S. roseofulvus forms separate cluster; these were isolated from different crop ﬁelds and showed more than 99 % sequence similarities. One strain of S. covourensis and S. zhihengii in cluster I were collected from the rice rhizosphere. Two strains of S. lonaren- sis separated in cluster II which showed 99–100 % similarity with respective species and were collected from rice and maize rhizo- sphere. Interestingly major cluster II comprises 15 strains separated into three subclusters, with a maximum of eight strains that belong to S. bohaiensis, followed by S. daghestanicus. Cluster III presents ﬁve species with single isolates of each which includes S. glaucescens, S. pilosus, S. nigra, S. albogriseolus and S. carpaticus; these strains were collected from rice, bulk soil, and grass ﬁeld as presented in Table 1. Additionally, this cluster also presents 3 strains each of S. rochei and S. tendae; all these six strains were isolated from six different crop ﬁelds. Fig. 3 presents the relationship among the members of Nocar- diopsis which exhibits the grouping of sequences in two major groups; cluster I comprise a maximum of 10 strains which showed 99–100 % sequence similarities with Nocardiopsis dassonvillei. Out of these 10 strains, seven were isolated from rice rhizosphere, two from coconut ﬁelds and one from sorghum rhizosphere. Further cluster II comprises eight strains that showed 99 % sequence similar- ities with Nocardiopsis ﬂavescens these isolates were from six differ- ent crop ﬁelds which includes palm, okra, rice, redgram, lemon, and banana. Additionally in this cluster, 1 strain showed 99 % sequence similarities with Nocardiopsis listeri isolated from rice rhizosphere grouped as a separate subgroup. 3.5. Morphological characteristics of actinomycetes The morphological properties of all 65 actinomycetes strains are presented in Supplementary Table 1.