 The fruit from the remaining branches yielded 50 to 150 kg of quality fruit with improved size grades in the first year. The excessive shoots arising from the stump will be thinned out, leaving only the ideal ones for canopy development. 5. In the second year, the next two branches are headed back in a similar fashion, leaving the stump behind them. Only healthy shoots growing in the proper direction are allowed for canopy development, while others are thinned out. The remaining branches are headed back in the third year, and the plant is ready for fruiting in the third year. In the first year, fruit yield of 100 to 150 kg while in second year 20-50 kg/ tree was obtained. In the third year, a fruit yield of 20- 30 kg was obtained from the newly developed canopy after the removal of all the old primary branches. The fruit yield increases thereafter with an increase in the canopy size. 6. Fertilizer application, viz. 2.5 kg urea, 3.0 kg single super phosphate and 1.5 kg muriate of potash along with 50-100 kg of well rotten farm yard manure (FYM) should, as recommended for mango orchards, be applied. A full dose of FYM is applied just after harvesting during the rainy season. Half dose of nitrogen, full dose of phosphorus and half dose of potash is applied in September while remaining Fruiting on remaining branches Ideal canopy development New shoot growth on headed back limbs Indian Horticulture 34 Orchard before rejuvenation Refined rejuvenation technique demonstrated at Sitapur dose of nitrogen and potash is recommended for application just after fruit setting. 7. Thinning of excessive shoots arising from cut stumps is done during April and June to allow only 5-8 healthy shoots per branch for ideal canopy development. Monitoring and management of stem borer, leaf eating insect pests or fungal diseases is a must for success. During the summer, irrigation is applied at 15-day intervals from fruit setting to fruit maturity. 8. No mortality of trees/primary branches was observed due to stem borer infestation in case of this rejuvenation technology. Farmers' fields have been used to test the technology. Demonstration of technology-An experience This new refined mango rejuvenation technology was also demonstrated in a farmer’s field in Udhwapur village, Sitapur district, Uttar Pradesh. The farmer had more than 60 years old 85 mango trees of cultivar Dashehari, which had a huge canopy with poor productivity. After obtaining permission from the state department, the rejuvenation work started in December 2018 with the heading back of selected two branches and the removal of the top upright growing branch. A total of 85 trees were subject to the rejuvenation. After cutting the branch, anti-fungal paste was smeared as recommended. Stem borer infestation was easily managed with cleaning of holes and localized application of dichlorvos/kerosene/petrol soaked cotton in the holes wherever observed.