 It is largely cultivated in Amritsar and adjoining parts of Punjab, Haryana and some areas of western Uttar Pradesh for its seeds which are exported as condiment, and to a limited extent in the hills and in the plains in kitchen gardens for its leaves and roots used as vegetable. Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2177 Grazing of fingermillet Volume 2, page 335 Fingermillet Refer to ITK Code No. 215 Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages : 2199 : Feeding cattle with khali and extract of kalimi plant leaves to check loose motion : Volume 2, page 335 : Kalimi : Bengali: karamcha; Hindi: karaunda; Kannada: karekayi; Malayalam: karakka, karavanda; Marathi: karvanda; Oriya: kerendokuli; Sanskrit: avighna, karamarda; Tamil: karaikkay; Telugu: vakkaaya. English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications : Christ's thorn, karaunda : Carissa carandas Linn. : The wood is white with an irregular grey or orange-yellow heartwood, hard, smooth and close-grained. It is used for making combs and spoons. : An indigenous evergreen shrub or a small crooked tree up to 3 m in height with dichotomous branches armed with simple or forked 2-4 cm long axillary thorns, found throughout India, and also frequently cultivated for its edible fruits. Bark yellowish brown, peeling in square flakes; leaves leathery, light green, elliptic or elliptic- oblong, rounded at both ends; flowers white or pink, faintly scented, in terminal corymbose cymes; berries ellipsoid, purple or pink and white, normally 8-seeded. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 44 Use of kalajeera (Nigella sativa) as a medicine for animals Volume 2, page 336 Kala jeera Bengali: kalijira, mungrela; Gujarati: kalonji-jiram; Hindi: kalonji, kalajira, mugrela; Kannada: karejirage; Malayalam: karunchiragam; Tamil: karunjiragam; Telugu: nellajeelakaira. Small fennel, black cumin Nigella sativa Linn. The seeds are considered carminative, stimulant, diuretic, emmanagogue and galactagogue, and are used in the treatment of mild cases of fever. They are externally applied for eruption of skin. A small herb, 45 cm high, native of Levant, said to be cultivated or occasionally found as weed of cultivation in Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Bihar and Assam. Leaves 2-3 pinnatisect, 2.5-5.0 cm long, cut into linear-lanceolate segments; flowers pale blue, 2.0-2.5 cm across, without an involucre, on solitary long peduncles; seeds trigonous, black, rugulose-tubercular.