, 2018) and intercropping are effective measures to control di- verse weed ﬂora. Zero tillage (ZT) has various environmental ad- vantages, including a decrease in soil and water pollution, a decrease in runoff and soil degradation, improved nutrient cycling, and activities of soil macro and micro ﬂora (Holland, 2004). Farm- ers’ extensive implementation of zero tillage (ZT) has been high- lighted as being hindered by the retention of weed seeds near or on the soil surface induced by ZT’s little soil disturbance (Naeem et al., 2021). Yang et al. (2018). Besides, weed seeds at soil surface in ZT experienced rapid desiccation cause decrease in germination, emergence and weed seed bank (Peixoto et al., 2020) found that in ZT production system. Yang et al. (2018) found that crop residue retention/incorpora- tion is an effective weed management method for reducing weed diversity and biomass accumulation, but it also increases the like- lihood of being infected by soil fungus, pathogens, and microorgan- isms (Kulkarni et al., 2017). Crops have an early competitive advantage over weeds because of the amount and kind of covering material that delays weed germination (Chauhan and Mahajan, 2012). But some studies have also found that agricultural residue may discharge allelo-chemicals that prevent weed seeds from sprouting and evolving (Duke, 2015). However, ZT without crop ro- tation and enough soil cover results in soil deterioration, a high weed, insect, and disease problem, which lowers crop output (Verhulst et al., 2011). Herbicides application is the key tool to manage the weeds in current agriculture scenario due to their high efﬁcacy, low cost and ease of application (Chauhan et al., 2012). However, the application of herbicides is not a complete solution for the management of wide range of weeds. In order to control the diverse weed population and decrease the risk of herbicide confrontation, environmental degradation, and pollution, integrated weed management (IWM) is a combina- tion of two or more weed management tactics (Korres et al., 2019). Mulch cover, however, makes mechanical weed management and human weeding in California more challenging, which increases reliance on chemical weed control measures. Yet, crop rotation and crop diversiﬁcation are two successful weed management strategies in California (Weisberger et al., 2019). However, the ap- plication of reduced herbicides along with crop rotation is an effec- tive measure to control problematic weed species (Locke et al., 2002). Competition by weeds is the major reason for the low crop pro- ductivity and may reduce the grain yield from 7 to 50 per cent in wheat (Kurchania et al., 2000) and 27–60 per cent in maize crop (Kumar et al., 2015).