2 x 104 m3 and beneficiaries are four farm families. 3.4. Watershed Management Gandhiji’s sustainable development is based on a holistic paradigm, which lays stress on all round development of individual and society in relation with nature. Participatory watershed management, which conform the Gandhian concept, has emerged as a new paradigm for planning, development and management of land, water and biomass resources with a focus on social and institutional aspects apart from bio-physical aspects following a participatory “bottom-up” approach (Sikka et al. 2018). Watershed management becomes increasingly important as a way to improve livelihood of people while conserving and regenerating their natural resources. Under various Watershed Development Programmes, an area of about 56.96 million ha has been developed since inception up to 2010-11. Impact, adoption and spread of trench cum bunding: Trench- cum- bunding is an important in-situ conservation practice recommended for low rainfall regions with slopes up to 25%. The practice is being demonstrated in 15 districts as a part of the programme in several crops such as groundnut, pigeon pea, ﬁnger millet, cotton, maize, mango, etc. Yield improvement to the extent of 56% was recorded due to this practice. The practice also helps in minimizing soil erosion and the excess water was safely drained from the stone outlet particularly in soils with steep slopes. As part of the technology demonstration component of NICRA, so far 24 demonstrations were taken up on trench cum bunding involving 615 farmers in 7 states. There was a demand from the farmers to take up the practice and to facilitate with the department. In some of the NICRA villages, the extent of adoption of the practice was up to 85% of the total rainfed area in the village. The large-scale adoption became possible due to convergence with the developmental programmes. 3.5. Rejuvenation of Traditional Rainwater Harvesting System (Haveli Cultivation) Haveli system of rainwater harvesting is the age old practice in Bundelkhand region to recharge the weathered zone. ICAR-Central Agroforestry Research Institute (CAFRI), Jhansi in consortia with ICRISAT, Hyderabad selected Parasai-Sindh watershed in Babina block of Jhansi district to manage its natural resources through agroforestry in conjunction with engineering measures. About 100 years back, rainwater harvesting on Haveli principle was done by community near village Parasai. Almost all the wells situated in Parasai village used to get recharged from this haveli. In early eighty’s its outlet was clogged through debris and earthen embankment breached out in a length of 20 m. Community made several efforts to make it functional but 81 did not succeed in absence of technical guidance. In 2012, the community requested ICAR- CAFRI, Jhansi for repair and maintenance of Haveli system.