 The food grains are roasted at low heat, ground and kept in water- roof containers, preferably in steel jar. This powder is given to the children either by mixing with milk or in water, adding jaggery or sugar. This food provides almost all the nutrients required for the children. This is given twice a day along with daily diet. This poshaka ahara is given at least in two servings each of 100 g, starting from 3 years of age along with their normal diet and upto 200 g or 2 servings per day up to 7 years of age. This helps in increasing the height and weight Dr Saswati Parichha Training Associate (Home Science), KVK Bhanjanagar, Dihapodhala, Ganjam (Orissa) 751 003  of the children. Poshaka ahara can also be made similar to that of laddu. Laddu is prepared with wheat (2 kg), chickpea (1 kg), groundnut (250 g), sesame (250 g) and jaggery (3 kg). All the foodstuffs, except jaggery, are roasted first on slow heat separately, ground, powdered finely and mixed well. Jaggery syrup is prepared, all the poshaka powders are mixed in this syrup, and ball shaped laddus are prepared . The cost of each laddu is Rs 1 each. Each laddu weighing about 100 g, should be taken twice a day. There are other methods to get more nutritious food: (i) Parboiling of rice: During parboiling of rice, most of the nutrients are leached (driven) into the grain. Hence there is retention of nutrients like vitamin B and minerals. (ii) Puffing of rice: The grains are soaked in water and then roasted. The grains are puffed under high pressure and become crisp like puffed rice. Also rice flakes are made which contain a lot of vitamin B and minerals. (iii) Porridge making: Coarsely ground cereals which are left over while milling process, can also be utilized by making porridge. Cereals can be cooked in water after adding a little salt to it. Examples are rice porridge, ragi porridge, wheat porridge, maize porridge etc. (iv) Sprouting of pulses: Bengalgram, greengram and blackgram may be sprouted in water for 1 or 2 days. It improves the vitamin C and vitamin B content of the pulses. This is a healthy practice. Therefore poshaka ahara is a good supplementary food used to overcome the nutritional deficiency diseases among under nourished and malnourished children. Keywords: poshaka ahara, chatua, undernourished, malnourished, laddu, parboiling of rice, puffing of rice, porridge making, sprouting 2732 Preparation of subzi (curry) of dried rice During functions at home if rice is left in excess quantity, the women of Kasoli area of Solan district of Himachal Pradesh prepare small round balls of this rice. These rice balls are sun dried for 3 to 4 days. Shri Pawan Kumar Parihar, Himchal Pradesh Government Press, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005  After complete drying these small balls can be stored in airtight container for later use. Whenever curry is to be prepared, these balls are fried into mustard oil by adding all the spices.