 Sugarcane yy For spring sowing of sugarcane, select improved varieties according to their maturity group. Among the early-maturing varieties, grow CoPb 92, Co 118, CoJ 85 and CoJ 64; and among the mid-late maturing varieties grow CoPb 93, CoPb 94, Co 238, CoPb 91 and CoJ 88. Don’t use commercial crop as seed. To obtain quality seed, separate disease-free nursery should be maintained preferably from tissue culture raised plants. Apply higher dose of N (225 kg /ha) to get immature seed canes. Complete the planting between mid- 23 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS February to end March, avoid planting of early maturing varieties after March. Use 75-87.5 quintal/ha of seed but for Co 118 and CoJ 85, use 10 per cent higher seed rate due to thick canes. yy Among the chemical fertilizers, apply 150 kg N/ha to plant crop and 225 kg N/ha to ratoon crop. Apply 30 kg phosphorus/ha if the soils are low in phosphorus. Apply only 115 kg N/ha when sugarcane follows potato. To the planted crop, apply half nitrogen with first irrigation after germination and remaining half dose in May or June. However, to the ratoon crop, apply one third of nitrogen in February, second one third dose in April and the remaining one- third in May. Phosphorus if needed, at the time of first cultivation in February. yy On light textured soil, iron deficiency generally appears on sugarcane. Apply copious amount of water. Further, spray the crop 2 or 3 times with 1% solution of ferrous sulphate at weekly intervals. yy Give need based two or three hoeing depending upon the intensity of weeds. Apply paddy straw or rice husk or sugarcane trash or tree leaves in between rows @ 50-62.5 q/ha after the emergence of the shoots to suppress weeds, conserve soil moisture and higher yield. yy Hot and dry period of April to June is critical period of sugarcane growth. During this period, crop should not suffer from water stress. Apply irrigation at 7 to 12 days interval. During the rainy-season, apply need-based irrigation. If water stagnation occurs during rainy season, drain away excess water. During November to January, apply irrigation at about monthly intervals. Adjust one irrigation around mid-December and another in the first week of January to prevent crop from frost. For economising water and fertilizers and for higher yields, adopt sub surface drip and fertigation. yy Lodging of sugarcane reduces yield as well as sugar recovery. To prevention lodging do earthing up in flat-planted as well as the trench-planted crop at the end of June. Trench-planting is effective method against lodging. During the end of August or in the 24 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS beginning of September do propping by using the trash. Prop up single row instead of tying two rows together as tying of single row does not hinder the growth and photosynthesis.