 Seeds are medium large, and of good shape. Seeds have high protein and zinc content. Considering these desirable agronomic and quality features, ‘DBGC 3’ has been recommended for release in the NEPZ by the Varietal Identification Committee in its meeting held on September 01, 2023 at MPKV, Rahuri during the Annual Group Meet on rabi pulses. Its release and notification is likely to have impact on increasing chickpea area and productivity in the NEPZ. *Corresponding author email: akiipr23@yahoo.com Indian Farming 11 January 2024 System of mustard intensification Paving the way for India’s self-reliance in oilseed production Sandeep Kumar1*, Sanjay Singh Rathore1 and Avaneesh Kumar1 1ICAR-National Bureau of Soil Survey and Land Use Planning, RC, Jorhat, Assam 785 004 The global vegetable oils sector, playing a crucial role in nutrition, energy, and economic stability, has witnessed a robust growth rate of 4.1% per annum over the last three decades. However, India faces a deficit of 14.1 million tonnes in edible oil, leading to increased import expenditures, reaching `150,800 crore in 2021–22. Escalating demand, driven by rising per capita income and consumption, necessitates innovative solutions to enhance productivity. System of Mustard Intensification (SMI) has recently caught attention of the cultivators in some not so traditional mustard growing areas of the country. Drawing inspiration from successful practices like the System of Rice Intensification, SMI optimizes mustard cultivation, emphasizing resource efficiency and minimal environmental impact. This technology has already been tested and performed well in the field experiments at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi, and in farmers' fields in Umariya, Madhya Pradesh. The system of mustard intensification stands as a promising agricultural innovation with the potential to address challenges in mustard cultivation, contribute to oilseeds production, and reduce import burdens. The positive outcomes observed in diverse regions underscore the importance of promoting and adopting SMI for sustainable and efficient mustard cultivation. Keywords: Intensification, Mustard, Oilseeds, Self-reliance, Transplanting T HE global vegetable oils sector plays a pivotal role in nutrition, energy, and economic stability. Globally, despite a robust growth rate of 4.1% per annum over the last three decade and between 2015-2016 and 2020-2021, the compound annual growth rate of oilseed production of India was 7.7%, the demand for vegetable oils is outpacing supply due to cultivation challenges and uncertain profitability. The area, production, and yield of oilseeds crops in India are 25.65 million hectares (mha), 40 million tonnes (MT), and 1.5 tonnes per hectare (t/ha), respectively. Specifically, for rapeseed and mustard, the corresponding data are 9.2 mha, 11.4 MT, and 1.26 t/ha. The annual edible oil production (11.5 MT) and consumption (25.6 MT) in India, indicates a deficit of 14.