): Supplementation of oyster mushroom substrate with organic Nitrogen rich supplements and supplementation with 5% rice bran promoted oyster mushroom yield by 40%. Pleurotus florida out yielded blue oyster mushroom Hypsizygus ulmarius. Spraying of Pleurotus florida bags with 0.1% urea gave higher mushroom yield. Blue oyster mushroom Hypsizygus ulmarius gave good mushroom yield. Other Mushrooms: Worked on strainal evaluation of paddy straw mushroom Volvariella volvacea and 4 high yielding strains were identified with more than 15% biological efficiency. Out of 7 strains strain VV‐06 gave highest yield. Germplasm Collection: Reported some new specimens of wild edible mushrooms. Transfer of Technology: Organized training programmes for unemployment youths. www.icar.org.in 65 2002‐2007 Dr. Y.S.Parmar Univ. of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, Solan (Cooperating Centre) White Button Mushroom (Agaricus bisporus): • Studies were carried out on microbial dynamics in supplemented substrate and its effect on mushroom yield. Penicillium spp. dominated in cotton seed meal, cotton seed cake and sesame meal supplemented substrates followed by Rhizopus nigricans and Mucor racemosus. Among bacteria Pseudomonas spp. dominated all the supplemented substrates. The microbial population increased gradually with time and was highest on 20th day of spawning. Higheast button mushroom yield of 21.64 kg/100kg compost was recorded in cotton seed meal supplemented substrate. Different supplements also stimulated the growth of different fungi in compost and affected the mushroom yield. Highest yield loss was recorded due to Sepedonium chrysospermum resulted because of addition of 2% peptone in the substrate. • Inoculation of thermophilic fungi in compost at the time of spawning also enhanced the button mushroom yield and the combined inoculum of three fungi viz, Scytalidium thermophilum, Gilmaniella Humicola and Thermomyces lanuginosus gave highest mushroom yield of 22.75 kg/100kg compost about 21.30 % increase of the control. Different casing materials were also evaluated alone and in their different combinations. Among these the Farm Yard Manure alone and its combination with leached vermicompost and 3 years old spent compost gave highest mushroom yield. A new composting process was also developed which gave mushroom yield of 23.9 to 24.9 kg/100kg compost in 3 evaluation trails with a yield enhancement of about 19 to 24% over the traditional method. www.icar.org.in 66 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Horticulture All India Coordinated Research Project on Palms 1. Title of the Project : All India Coordinated Research Project on Palms 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr. S. Arulraj, Project Coordinator (Palms) All India Coordinated Research Project on Palms, Central Plantation Crops Research Institute Kasaragod – 671 124, Kerala. Telefax: Off: 04994‐232733 0499‐430893‐6 Email: aicrppalms@yahoo.com 3.