 Trap crops Trap crop refers to the crop stand that entices and attracts the pest, strategically and temporally and confines and concentrate the pest within a favoured trap crop rather than the main crop. Dense canopies of trap crops can improve soil moisture retention by providing ground cover, reducing soil evaporation, and improving water infiltration. Leguminous trap crops like cowpea can reduce the soil evaporation due to its good ground coverage. Trap crops can also enhance soil organic matter through addition of biomass to the soil. Organic matter improves water-holding capacity, helping crops to cope better during periods of drought. Improved organic matter also improves the microbial population and soil health. Trap crops are included in the integrated pest management. These crops are strategically planted to attract pests, such as insects and nematodes, serving as a more appealing host, thus protecting the primary crop from damage. Additionally, trap crops can disrupt pest lifecycles, enhance natural predators, and create protective barriers, minimizing the pest’s ability to harm the primary crop. The trap crop can also serve as an additional reservoir of beneficial predators and parasites. Use of Indian mustard and African marigold as trap crops against diamond back moth, Plutella xylostella in cabbage and tomato fruit borer Helicoverpa armigera in tomato are examples of successful trap crop. SUMMARY Mitigating both biotic and abiotic stresses, including abiotic-driven biotic stress, through strategic crop interventions is essential for the future of agriculture, particularly in the face of growing population and climate challenges. Techniques discussed in this paper such as crop rotation, resistant cultivars, intercropping, and trap crops presents sustainable, cost-effective, and environmentally sound approaches to enhancing crop resilience towards the various abiotic and biotic stresses and thus improve crop productivity. *Corresponding author email: Ms.rao@icar.gov.in Table 3. Diverse crops in the system supporting livestock Green fodder production from different systems (q/ha) System Fodder sorghum Fodder cluster bean Fodder cowpea Fodder horse gram Sorghum ratoon Sorghum-F. Cluster bean-fodder cowpea- fodder horse gram 75.25 80.16 196.66 18.73 37.13 Hedge Lucerne/Guinea grass Sorghum Pigeon pea 1 cut 2 cuts 3 cuts fodder Sorghum + Pigeonpea-Hedge lucerne 12.5 14.6 14.1 46 0 Sorghum + Pigeonpea-Guinea grass 14.3 17.2 17.