 However, forest stores major SOC in upper layer. Therefore, land use changing caused losses of SOC content in topsoil (Leuschner et al., 2013). The native grass land (NG) had lower SOC content and stock than NF. This could be due to introducing livestock grazing. The lower SOC stocks in pasture land use systems compared with the next to forest system had been reported earlier (Seddaiu, 2013). In NG, the annual turnover from rhizodeposition is much higher than the crop lands which leads to higher SOC stocks than most of the cropping systems (Jobbagy and Jackson, 2000). In all the land uses, total SOC concentration and SOC stocks are higher in surface (0–15 cm) than the deeper layers. This was mainly for: a) biological activity got depressed after surface soil layer (Bhattachar­ yya et al., 2011); b) decreased organic matter inputs from roots with soil depth. Under the cropped land, rice-wheat (RW) and rice- vegetable (RV) systems had higher C concentration than the other cropping system (MW). This increasing trend of SOC could be explained by the effect of manuring on field as the rate of SOC build up is directly related with the added C inputs, stubble mulching, rhizodeposition and root biomass (Hassink, 1995; Jastrow et al., 2007). The root biomass, litter fall and rhizodeposition might be more under rice, especially in the surface layer (0–15 cm), than maize. Intensive tillage and unprotected soil surfaces result in soil erosion and thereby promote soil loss as well as fertile topsoil is rich in soil organic matter (SOM). Jastrow et al. (2007) re­ ported that in agricultural field due to repeated biomass removal had an adverse impact on SOM build up. Whereas, forest soils have large amount of dead and fallen leaves which help significantly in SOC con­ centration build up. Another study to support this statement was done by (Hernandez-Ramirez et al., 2011) and they concluded that about half of SOC which was found just under the tree and were derived originally from those trees. 4.2. Effect of land use on soil aggregation In this study, macroaggregates (>250 µm) are present in large pro­ portion in all land uses. The main reason of abundance of macroaggre­ gates could be: a) the products released by farmyard manure (FYM) decomposition after incorporating in soil bind with inherent binding substances secreted by roots and create an amalgamated strong binding agents. These products bind the microaggregates and form macroag­ gregates from it (Liao et al., 2006; Boutton et al., 2009). The effect of sesquioxide as aggregate stabilizing agent is a matter of argument as many studies showed contradicting results. Du Plesis and Shainberg (1985) reported that the soils having high amount of Fe/Al oxides as well as hydroxides are very stable and high amount of macroaggregates were found in them, similar to our results.