 pinnatisectum • The non-crossable wild potato species Solanum pinnatisectum and the cultivated potato Solanum tuberosum dihaploid ‘C-13’ are sexually incompatible • Overcome sexual incompatibility by protoplast fusion • Tetraploid (like common potato) confirmed by flow cytometry • Very high resistance to late blight disease • Diverse genetic base • Nuclear and cytoplasm genes of two Solanum species • Long tuber dormancy • Male and female fertile • Crossable with cultivated potato varieties • Confirmed hybridity by molecular markers and phenotypes For further interaction, please write to: Dr J K T Dr J K T Dr J K T Dr J K T Dr J K Tiwari iwari iwari iwari iwari (Senior Scientist), ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla 171 001, Himachal Pradesh. E-mail: jageshtiwari@gmail.com species developed by protoplast fusion technique. This would be helpful to the resource poor farmers to save cost of cultivation by growing resistant varieties which would be developed using these lines as parents in breeding programmes. 11051 for its elite traits like high resistance to late blight, high pollen fertility and diverse gene pool of two Solanum Progeny of somatic hybrid Somatic hybrid tubers Gardening provides you . . . • Feeling of peace and tranquility, reduces stress, and offers a sense of self-esteem and mastery of environment • Horticultural therapy, which is utilized in psychiatric hospitals, general hospitals, physical rehabilitation centres, homes for elderly, prisons and schools • This therapy helps the individual to overcome the diagnosed problems or cope with the problem much better while developing relationship with plants and landscaping. • The patients can achieve higher level of personal development and satisfaction. November–December 2019 63 Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology Tanuja Buckseth, Rajesh K Singh, Clarissa Challam, Jagesh K Tiwari, Ashwani K Sharma and S K Chakrabarti Apical root cutting: A novel technique for the production of quality seed potato India is the second largest producer and consumer of potato in the world. In the past five decades, potato production has steadily increased from around 8.3 million tonnes in 1980 to 48.6 million tonnes in 2017, an increase of more than 500 percent. In the past ten years, the production has increased more than 60 percent with both area and yield contributing to the increase. The national average potato yield in 2017 was around 24 tonnes per hectare. However, there are wide variations in yield level within India, ranging from 31.5 tonnes per hectare in Gujarat to 10 tonnes per hectare in Assam. Among different constraining factors for yield growth, the limited availability of quality seed material is considered as the most important factor for lower yield levels in eastern states.