 In 1970-71, when the green revolution had started, 1 kg of NPK produced 50 kg extra wheat but lately it produces only 5 kg extra wheat. Climate is changing at a very fast pace and every 1oC increase in temperature would increase 2 per cent more water demand. Water is a serious issue as 65 per cent underground water goes to agriculture. Madya Pradesh may be producing good quality wheat but for its per kg wheat production, water use is the highest. We need to consider this and need to have some strong measures such as shift in crops (from high water requiring crops to low water requiring crops) and some policies to stop excessive use of water. If water use continues at this speed, there will be 755 billion cubic meter water deficit by 2030. The efforts of the researchers/ scientists, who in the last two years have produced 651 improved varieties in 50 crops, 70 fortified varieties and 451 varieties with inbuilt resistance to biotic and abiotic factors, need to be appreciated. Kadaknath is an example of fortification in meat— kadaknath meat is rich in protein and low in cholesterol and contains medicinal properties. There is a pressing need for agriculture to shift its focus to secondary agriculture to enhance employment and income. Accelerated processing and diversified value-added products development and converting so-called ‘agricultural wastes’ into wealth can improve our rural economy. There are also certain alternative agriculture activities like beekeeping, mushroom production, backyard poultry, etc., which can bring much needed improvement. Increasing total factor productivity of Indian agriculture is essentially called for. There is a burning need to have a mass movement for activities like vermicompost and vermi wash production, residue recycling, production of biologicals, etc. to ensure profitable and sustainable eco-friendly agriculture. A system wide system approach in systems perspective to be resorted too. There is an urgent need to enhance investment in agriculture and increase capital formation. There must be a policy environment to ensure remunerative and resilient agriculture 38 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series Key takeaways Develop district-wise land use plan. Researches need to be intensified to enhance input-use efficiency. Soil carbon needs to be enhanced and soil biota improved. Secondary agriculture is to be ventured in the right earnest. Research intensity ratio has to be improved from 0.3 per cent to at least 1.0 per cent. Processing of produce, value-added products development, marketing and trade are to be improved. Investment need to enhanced in land development, water harvesting and multiple water use. 39 Sustainable Agriculture INDIGENOUS COW-BASED NATURAL FARMING FOR ATMANIRBHAR BHARAT P.P. Adrushya Kadsiddheshwar Swamiji India is basically an agriculture-based country. To improve soil health, we have to increase carbon content of the soil.