 VISTa—World’s first crop variety identification system: The global use of germplasm is often encountered with sovereignty and access benefit sharing (ABS) issues. This has led to a great challenge to develop rapid and highly reliable method of plant Variety Identification System (VIS). A web-based tool named VISTa (Variety Identification System for Triticum aestivum) was developed to store genotype data. It is populated with DUS features of all varieties of model dataset. While obtaining the DNA signature based varietal identification, user gets display of its DUS feature also. This is freely accessible at http://webtom.cabgrid.res.in/ vista. Its android version is also available at Google play store. As on today, SNP chips are available for >25 different agri-crop species, but there is no varietal signature with universal accessibility. This methodology can be of immediate use at pan-global level. The tool can be pivotal in management and implementation of material transfer agreement, trans-border movement, varietal piracy, patent dispute, sovereignty issues, Nagoya protocol and ABS issues, traceability and adulteration. PolyMorphPredict: This is a rapid microsatellite marker polymorphism discovery tool for crop, animal and fish genome. Whole genome sequence data have revolutionized the microsatellite marker discovery and can catalogue such markers with chromosome number and location, making a catalogue or atlas of the genome. PolyMorphPredict, a tool available at http:// webtom.cabgrid.res.in/polypred was developed at the ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi, and was evaluated for e-PCR genotyping efficacy in microsatellite polymorphism discovery. Predicted polymorphism was validated successfully by PCR using DNA samples of four Indian rice varieties in collaboration with ICAR-NBPGR, New Delhi. Polymorphism discovery tool has module of microsatellite mining from genomic data and has module for polymorphism discovery based on amplicon size difference computed by e-PCR on user defined location on any chromosome of choice. For popularization of this tool, provision was made for non-expert user to get self- trained by test run using 3 sample genomes available in tool. Provision was made to visualize the genotyping in simulated gel-electrophoresis. This tool can reduce the cost and time drastically by computational discovery of microsatellite polymorphism very advantageously using whole genome data of any re-sequencing and RNA sequencing projects. It has provision for e-PCR by using already published primers also. PolyMorphPredict would be of immense use in diversity estimation along with crop variety, animal and fish breed identification, population structure, MAS, QTL and gene discovery, traceability, parentage testing, fungal diagnostics and genome finishing. KRISHI Portal (https://krishi.icar.gov.in): Knowledge Based Resources Information Systems Hub for Innovations in Agriculture is being strengthened to streamline research data management in ICAR System.