 Rhizosphere soil and roots The rhizosphere soil was collected from the root zone and root samples from the plant at distinct spots in 36 plots each by pulling out the plant, separating the roots from the plant through cutting with the help of a knife followed by removing rhizosphere soil then kept in a polythene zip cover [34] during 2023 at tasseling stage of maize (8th cropping cycle). The rhizosphere soil samples were subsequently inter-mixed, unified, and composed into composite sample (s) per plot. Similarly, the roots were garnered from three maize plants per plot, washed gently under tap running water; drained excess moisture adhered to the roots. These roots were stored at 4 ⸰C to be processed for AMF/root colonization [4]. The whole composite rhizosphere soils from each treatment were sub-divided into 2, kept in polythene bags with zippers in the laboratory, of which one portion was stored at 4 ⸰C to be utilized for β-GaA and SMBC analysis, and the remaining portion was well air-dried under shade, passed through 2 mm and 0.5 mm sieves to be utilized for glomalin related soil protein (GRSP) and soil organic carbon (SOC), respectively. For soil aggregate stability, clods were collected from respective plots and stored in the laboratory for analysis. 5. Soil and root standard analytical procedures 5.1. Assessment and computation of AMF colonization percentage To stain and assess AMF colonization, 2 g of fresh fine lateral roots were utilized. Root samples were cleared and stained according to Phillips and Hayman [35]. About 10 segments were arranged in a microscopic slide 10 times and examined for the presence of hyphae, arbuscules and vesicles under optical microscope at 20 megapixels following the grid line-intersect method [36] (Giovannetti and Mosse, 1998). In general, 100 segments of the roots were considered to estimate percentage root colonization (% AMF coloni­ zation) according to equation (1). Percentage (%) AMF colonization = Number of root bits with injection Number of root bits examined × 100 (1) 5.2. Extraction and computation of glomalin The two pools of glomalin i.e., easily extractable-glomalin soil related protein (EE-GRSP) and total-GRSP (T-GRSP) were deter­ mined according to Wright and Updahyaya [37]. The quantity and/or absorbance of glomalin within the supernatant was determined spectrophotometrically (λ = 595 nm) by the Bradford dye-binding test [37] and expressed as mg g−1 of soil. 5.3. Soil organic carbon (SOC), microbial biomass carbon (SMBC) and β-galactosidase activity The analysis for SOC was achieved by wet oxidation method [30] (Walkley and Black, 1934). SMBC was determined according to fumigation extraction method [38,39]. The β-galactosidase (β-GaA) was estimated according to Eivazi and Tabatabai [40] and Table 2 Tillage treatment details with crop diversification in the main plots.