 • Developed national guidelines for cage culture in open waters, road-maps for sustainable management and development of inland open water fisheries of 12 major states. 169 Fisheries Science 169 • Extended consultancy services to over 20 government and non-governmental organisations for the impact of dams on fisheries, navigational disturbances, hydro-electric power projects, fish pass efficacies, etc. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Operation of cage and pen culture in reservoirs and wetlands. • Consultancy services on environment impact assessment (EIA) and environmental management plan (EMP) of large open-water bodies. • Training and demonstration in inland open-water fisheries management. 170 ICAR Institutes Profile 170 ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-CIFA, Kausalyaganga, Bhubaneswar-751002 (Odisha) ii. Name of the Director: Dr Saroj Kumar Swain iii. E-mail address : director.cifa@icar.gov.in / Phone No.: 0674-2465421 2. Mandate and Activities The major thrust areas of ICAR-CIFA include species & systems diversification, genetic improvement, water use efficiency, nutrition & feed development, fish health management, etc. for enhancing productivity and economic returns in freshwater aquaculture. • Basic and strategic research for the development of sustainable culture systems for freshwater finfish and shellfish. • Species and systems diversification in freshwater aquaculture. • Human resource development through training, education and extension. 3. Salient Achievements • Developed breeding and seed production technologies of >20 freshwater foodfish species including major & minor carps, catfishes, murrels, etc. and >10 ornamental fishes. • Development of different grow-out culture systems with different productivity levels. • Developed FRP portable hatchery for the small-scale decentralized breeding facility. • Developed genetically-improved strains of important carps/freshwater prawn through selective breeding demonstrating >60% higher growth in rohu; >30% in catla and >50% in giant freshwater prawn at farmers’ fields. Further, developed disease resistance Jayanti rohu against Aeromonas hydrophila. • Developed shining barb from rosy barb through selective breeding. • Developed several functional feeds for different life stages of important freshwater carps, catfishes and freshwater prawns. • Developed CIFAX-a therapeutic formulation for control of Epizootic Ulcerative Syndrome (EUS). Further, developed Immunoboost-C as an immunostimulant to improve brood fish health and seed production in carps, and CIFACURE for controlling common bacterial and fungal infections in freshwater ornamental fishes. • Developed diagnostic kits for Edwardsiellosis, Aeromoniasis and Bacterial gill disease of carps, and molecular diagnostics for viral pathogens in freshwater fish/prawn. 171 Fisheries Science 171 4.