 This compendium is an attempt in this direction to collect and document the practices adopted by farmers across the state, so that these farmers get encouragement and become an inspiration for others as well. It is observed that farmers have often developed their own techniques and methods for implementing the principles of natural farming. To make Himachal Pradesh a chemical-free state, government took a bold step in this direction by launching ‘Natural Farming Khushhal Kisan’ scheme in February 2018 to double the income of farmers and for their long-term welfare. So far, a total of 1,64,766 farmers have been trained across the state and 1,53,643 have started farming fully or partially with this method. SUMMARY Natural Farming is a unique method of farming in which the farmers can grow hardy local varieties of crops without application of fertilizers and pesticides. More importantly, there is absolutely no place for fertilizers and plant protection chemicals in this scheme of farming. While the country has been planning to revamp its agricultural production system including R&D to meet the formidable challenges being faced by it, the economic survey of 2018– 19 made a fervent appeal for the adoption of natural farming in a big way to double farmers’ income. The whole philosophy behind this system is to make the farmer self- reliant so that he is freed from the clutches of money lenders and market dispensed high cost inputs. Hence, successful results of Prakritik Kheti Khushhal Kisan Yojana (PK3Y), which was started three and a half years ago, are being seen. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: ishita.mandla37@gmail.com Indian Farming 16 August 2023 Alternate cropping systems for food and nutritional security in eastern India Rakesh Kumar, Bal Krishna* and Sanjeev Kumar ICAR–Research Complex for Eastern Region, Patna, Bihar 800 014 There is an urgent need for identification of the eco-friendly/cleaner production system that is more productive and profitable, efficient user of energy, water and carbon-based inputs, and environmentally safer. In India, there are more than 80 pre-dominant cropping production systems. Continuous growing of the existing pre-dominant cropping system has resulted in stagnation or decline in crop productivity, particularly in rice-wheat system in the Indo-Gangetic Plains. Excess use of inorganic fertilizers along with frequent use of pesticides and climate change have adversely impacted the soil health, productivity and thereby livelihood and nutritional security of small and marginal farmers. Hence, there is a need to develop the site specific an alternate cropping system for efficient utilization of available resources and to maintain stability in agricultural production systems for a longer period, and get a higher profit.