 The discussions on issues of relevance for food security especially in the context of International Year of Millets, resilience to crisis through climate resilient agriculture and One Health approach, emerging issues e.g. digital agriculture and public-private partnerships for R&D were held. The meeting specifically featured Millets and Other Ancient Grains International Research Initiative (MAHARISHI) and was accepted by all member countries with emphasis on millets based local food system for agrobiodiversity, food and nutrition security. Keywords: Climate resilient agriculture, Food security, G20, MACS, One Health approach T HE G20 is the intergovernmental forum comprising of 19 countries (Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Republic of Korea, Mexico, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Turkiye, United Kingdom and United States) and European Union. All major developed and developing economies of the World are members of this group which works to address major global issues related to food security, nutrition, economy, financial stability, climate change adaptation and mitigation, and sustainable development. The member countries of G20 together accounts for about 80% of World’s GDP, 3/4 of trade, 2/3 of population and close to 60% of global land use. G20 was founded in 1999 in response of many global crises. The heads of state meet annually at its summit since 2008. Several of other countries, international organizations and non-governmental organizations are also invited, some on a permanent basis, in G20 summit and other meetings. G20 summit 2009, held in London declared itself the premium forum for international economic and financial cooperation. The stature of the group has risen in subsequent years as exercising considerable global influence. G20 Presidency and meetings The Presidency of G20 is rotational with each member, enjoying equal opportunity to steer the G20 agenda as chair for a year and host the summit. India holds the G20 Presidency in 2023. There are two parallel tracks in G20 meetings, the Finance track and the Sherpa track. Finance ministers and central bank governors lead the Finance track while Sherpas lead the Sherpa track. The thematically oriented working groups function within the two tracks. The representatives from the relevant ministries of the members as well as from invited/ guest countries and various international organizations participate in these groups. These working groups meet regularly throughout the term of each Presidency. In addition, there are engagement groups which bring together civil societies, parliamentarians, think tanks, women, youth, labour, businesses and researchers of the G20 countries. Within the Sherpa track, agriculture is an important thematic working group which consists of Agricultural Deputies Meetings (ADMs), Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists (MACS) and Agricultural Ministerial Meeting (AMM).