 The formulation is recommended for use in Integrated Pest Management as well as under Organic farming system, ensures socio economic and environmental sustainability and compatible with most of the chemical at prescribed dosage. 12. Crop specific micronutrient mixtures for spices (Black pepper, Ginger, Turmeric) Recommended @ 5g/L water and applied as foliar spray at 60 days after planting and 90 days after planting for ginger and turmeric; spraying twice in a year at April – May and August – September for black pepper. Increased use efficiency of applied nutrients based on the crop requirement 7.3 Summary Recommendations i. Productivity improvement in crops through introduction of High Yielding Varieties (HYV). Increasing the Seed Replacement of Ratio (SRR) of existing popular varieties. Creation of new mango orchards of improved local verities by high density planting. ii. Crop Diversification, Intensification and Integrated Farming System (IFS) approaches (Integration of potential crops, animal and fishery) and advanced management practices like nutrient management and plant protection measures. iii. Introduction of exotic germplasm through AI not exceeding 50% genetic makeup. For high yielding, crossbred dairy cattle may be promoted but not exceeding exotic blood level more than 50%. Replacement of stock at least 10 % with units can improve the production. iv. Introduction and conservation of Indigenous breeds: In the scenario of climate change it is very much essential to identify and conserve local germplasm of cattle suited for local coastal climate. Through selective breeding and purifying local breed development is essential. The indigenous high yielding breeds of Indian continent also needs to be introduced as per requirement of farmers. v. Community Dairy Farming: For creating self-employment and to engage youth in dairy farming community dairy farming concept will be useful. vi. Organization of cattle markets for facilitating sale/purchase of high quality breeding animals of farmers among themselves. vii. Slaughter house and meat processing units for small animals and strengthening the State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 149 veterinary services. viii. Fishing is one of the major economic livelihoods of fishermen in the State. There is a wide scope to improve the income and livelihood of fishermen through diversification of fish species to increase stock density, better availability of the fish seeds, promotion of mussel farming, capacity building and awareness creation, etc. ix. Improved storage facilities – cold ice plants, insulate vehicles, etc can also play an important role for marketing of the fish catch. x. Development of integrated farming systems with fishery as an important enterprise can ensure regular income and improved production. xi. Post-harvest handling, value addition, allied activities like ornamental fish farming also have potential to contribute to improvement in income. xii.