 Compound 1 (gallic acid), isolated from Rhus semialata, when tested for anti-cancer activity against U937 breast cancer cell line, significantly reduced the cell viability in a dose- dependent manner. Demonstration of grow-out farming of silver pompano, Trachinotus blochii, in marine sea cage was launched to popularise cage culture technology of marine fin fishes among the fish farmers in South Andaman. Freshwater fishes Mugilogobius tigrinus, Redigobius oyensii, Brachydanio rerio and marine fish Tomiamichthys russus were reported for the first time from Andaman Island. Under the Tribal Sub Plan (TSP), a watershed was developed at Bernia, Rajasthan, where availability of water was improved by increasing capacity of the existing village pond or nadi, connecting the pond to farmers’ field with a channel and constructing three rainwater harvesting tankas. Kharif crop yield increased over the traditional cropping practices of the farmer, and survival of various fruit trees varied from 60-80%. Adoption of tuber crops based farming system by the Nicobari tribal communities increased employment generation from 41 man days/year in their traditional system to 101 days/year. Its success attracted more tribal youths and they came forward to adopt the system as their livelihood options. Organization and management: The workflow based transfer application module consisting of different phases of transfer cycle was developed. This is accessible through the on-line module ICAR Personnel Management Information System (PMES). The on- line transfer system was implemented on 23 May 2017. In alignment with UGC Regulations, the ARS Study Leave Regulations, 1991 were notified. Revision of guidelines for redeployment/ transfer/ diversion/ adjustment/up-gradation/re- designation of various positions in ICAR was made during the reported period. Further, disciplines, namely ‘Agricultural Structures and Environmental Management’ and ‘Agricultural Process Engineering’ were merged and named as ‘Agricultural Structure and Process Engineering’. These disciplines have been implemented w.e.f. 17 April 2017. Intellectual property and technology management: To protect new innovations, ICAR filed 101 applications from 31 ICAR institutions; these are at different steps of patent grant, viz. newly filed (20), published (50) and granted (31); taking the cumulative figure to 1,045 patent applications from 75 ICAR institutes. As the Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers’ Rights Authority notified new genera, a total of applications for 1,201 varieties (1,033 extant, 141 new, and 27 farmers’ varieties) were submitted by ICAR at the Registry; out of these, 787 varieties were granted registration certificates. Six copyright applications were filed and their research outcomes include, data entry software for crop area and yield estimation survey; design of micro irrigation system (DOMS); mobile assisted personal interview version 1(MAPI ver.