 Out of 5,659 training courses on horticulture, 3,091 were on vegetable crops, 1,577 fruit crops, 285 spice, 259 ornamental, and 115 courses on medicinal and aromatic crops. Rural youth: Skill-oriented vocational training courses (7,118) were organized for 1.74 lakh rural youth, including 54,232 young women (31%) during the reported year. These courses were on integrated farming, mushroom production, value-addition, dairy farming, seed production, vermi-culture, nursery Subject wise training programmes for farmers and farm women Punjab- Marching forward with Direct Seeded Rice District Muktsar of Punjab has set an example in large-scale adoption of Direct Seeded Rice (DSR) technique. Starting with 900 farmers three years ago, the area under DSR in the district has now increased up to 28,000 ha, which is 25% of total area under DSR in Punjab. DSR technology decreased—use of water (saves 4-5 irrigations), solved the problem of labour shortage particularly during transplantation of paddy, took 7-8 days less for maturity, and the yield was at par with manual transplanting. The paddy growers of district Muktsar could save approximately ` 8.25 crore by adoption of DSR technology (` 3,750/ ha). Besides, the DSR technology saved irrigation water up to 20-25%. Zero tillage of vegetable pea in rice fallow: Sikkim The East Sikkim district of Sikkim is climatically vulnerable and mostly affected by acute scarcity of water during rabi. Zero tillage of vegetable pea cultivation was evaluated and compared with mono- cropping system of rice cultivation and fallow after the harvesting of kharif rice. Since, there was no rain throughout the cropping period, the growth and yield parameters in vegetable pea were better in zero tillage than conventional tillage due to residual soil moisture after rice harvest. As a result, farmers are getting 13% higher green pod yield under the resource conservation practices over the traditional practices. The resource conservation technology of vegetable pea cultivation in the rice fallow also enhanced the cropping intensity of the area to the tune of 150 to 155% and income increased by 18.57% over the traditional practice. management of horticultural crops, beekeeping, protected cultivation of vegetables, repair and maintenance of farm machineries and implements, sheep and goat rearing, poultry production, production of organic inputs and small-scale processing. Extension personnel: Capacity development programmes (4,253 courses) were conducted for 1.042 lakh extension personnel, out of which 22,889 (22%) were women participants. These courses were organized for extension functionaries working in government and non-government organizations who were directly or indirectly related with the development of agriculture and allied sectors. Sponsored training: A total of 5,358 sponsored training courses were conducted benefiting 2.59 lakh farmers and farm women, rural youth and in-service extension personnel.