 These diseases are caused by a fungus that can be necrotrophic or biotrophic, e.g. Botrytis cinerea, B. fabae, Mycosphaerella rabiei, Colletotrichum, Puccinia recondita, Erysiphe polygoni and Perenospora (Table 1). Blight disease Blight can be considered as complete chlorosis, which includes browning and death of plant tissues such as leaves, twigs, branches and floral organs, and fruits. Blight mostly appears as water-soaking spots, toward the edge of lower leaves where dew or water gets collected. Under cool and moist conditions, water-soaking spots enlarge faster, and a yellow broad portion might be seen around the lesion. While on the underneath, white mold growing zone producing spore (approx. 0.1–0.2 inches wide) may appear at the lesion border. Spores are readily disseminated by rain splashing, over- irrigation or wind. Table 1. Overview of common foliar diseases of pulses Disease Pathogen Ascochyta blight Mycosphaerella rabiei Damping off Pythium spp., Fusarium spp. and Rhizoctonia spp. Collar rot Athelia rolfsii Rust Uromyces viciae-fabae Powdery mildew Erysiphe polygoni Wilt Fusarium oxysporum Sterility mosaic Eriophyid mite (Aceria cajani) Yellow mosaic virus Transmitted by vector Botrytis gray mould Botrytis cinerea Blight disease of pea Source: Agriculture Victoria Indian Farming 16 February 2023 Anthracnose This fungal disease mostly attacks plants during the spring, cool and wet weather, on leaves and twigs. Cool, rainy weather creates favourable conditions for the spores to spread. Fruiting bodies appear as tiny dispersed black-coloured flecks and pink masses of spores are seen at the center of the old black spot. Colletotrichum uses different strategies to cause infection of the host plant which starts from the hemibiotrophic intracellular mode up to the necrotrophic nutrition mode. The initial infection starts as the conidia attach to the host surface, germinate and produce appressoria following penetration of host epidermis. Powdery mildew Mildew is marked by a white floury covering comprising of conidia. The lower leaves are mostly affected, but it is also seen above ground part of the plant as well. As the disease progresses, the spots get larger and denser as large numbers of asexual spores are formed and the mildew spreads on the entire host including pods. The optimum Leaf spot disease Leaf spots, round in shape are found on the leaves of many plant species, mostly caused by fungi that are parasitic in nature. A typical spot has a defined edge and is often dark at the border. When many spots are present, together they can grow and form a blotch or blight. Spots of fungi are usually of free form or round in shape. In spring, when conditions are in favour of the fungus, ascospores discharge from perithecia and infect young leaves of plants. Once infected, a leaf serves as a good nutrient source for the fungus to produce secondary inoculum (conidia) inside pycnidia.