3 colonies were streaked uniformly in the Mueller and Hintonagar and appropriate discs were placed to know the antibiogram pattern of respective pathogens. The details of the microbes are furnished under larval study. Larval study Out of 24 samples in all the cases the larvae responsible was identified as Chrysomia bezziana and the stages of larva being II and III. In one or two cases live maggots were observed even after 2_3 days in groups I, II and IV because of the nature of the wound, containing both egg and all stages of larva. The study also indicates that the preparations were not effective on the eggs of Chrysomia bezziana . No difference was observed in the larvicidal effect of these preparations on The surface epithelium was completely denuded and covered by sero- fibrinous exudates containing discrete neutrophils. Dermis containing numerous discrete neutrophils with loss of collagen was observed. Group I (Turpentine oil) Sectioned tissues showed neutrophil infiltration and a few eosinophilic infiltration in the exudates and attempting to form fibrinous vascular tissues was evident on 3_4 days. Fibroblast and angioblast were also seen at the level of the wound (Fig. 9). Group II (Kumati fruit pulp): Surface was covered by marked necrotic area, containing discrete neutrophils and the base showing the fibro-vascular tissues (Fig. 10). Group III (neem oil): The study revealed massive infiltration of neutrophils with a few macrophages. Fibro vascular tissues formation with surface epithelium is also replaced by necrotic tissues (Fig. 11). Table 6. Larvicidal effect Group Duration (hr) In-vitro study In-vivo study Turpentine oil (Group I) 4-6 Effective in 12-24 hours Kumati fruit pulp (Group II) 18-36 Partially effective in 36-72 hours Neem oil (Group III) 18-36 Partially effective in 36-72 hours Kumati fruit, Pulp and neem oil mixture 12-24 Effective in 12-36 hours Table 7. Clinical observation of wound Group Discharge Duration Day of healing signs Duration of treatment Turpentine oil (Group I) Reduces from day 4 Starts from day 4 Average 5-10 days Kumati fruit pulp (Group II) Partial on day 7 Partial on day 7 Prolonged Neem oil (Group III) Partial on day 7 Partial on day 7 Prolonged Kumati fruit, pulp and neem oil mixture (Group IV) Reduces from day 3 Starts from day 3 Average 5-10 days  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY In-vitro study of larvidical effect Fig. 4. Relative performance of different types of treatments Fig. 5. Maggot wound - ventral abdomen - healing - with no discharge - 4th day Fig. 6. Maggot Wound - Elbow Region - Healing - with no discharge - 4th day Group IV (kumati fruit pulp and neem oil mixture) Acute inflammatory exudates were seen at the level of wound containing exudates, numerous discrete neutrophils and few macrophages. Necrotic tissues were evident at the surface fibro- vascular tissues and neutrophils were seen at the level of wound. Collagen was scarce at the level of dermis (Fig. 12). Maggot wounds 1.