 Crop diversiﬁcation can provide a long-term solution to existing farming techniques, while also producing stable job opportunities and higher income, and taking into account the changing customer preferences [20]. Crop diversiﬁcation is the practice of reallocating inputs across crops based on comparative advantages [19]. However, in modern farming practices, crop diversiﬁcation is in general a shift from traditional lower-value crops to high- value crops. This is a vital alleyway for a holistic approach to agricultural development; it will boost farmers’ adaptability to external shocks that would promote self-reliance and sustainability in agriculture. Not only can it solve the problem of farmers’ income instability, but it also facilitates crop diversiﬁcation, which is turned into a WTO-led, multilateral-trading system that conﬁnes the price as an enticement to increase production. After the independence of India, the structure of world agriculture has changed remarkably, and Indian agriculture was not an exception. The radical shift in the farming practice requires us to step out from traditional farming practices to a more advanced approach. It is because farmers will persist in an unfavorable position unless they adapt to market needs. Crop diversiﬁcation is a crop-selection strategy that enables a farmer to cultivate a wide variety of crops in a limited area to increase production-related activities, while reducing the overall cultivation- and production-related risks. Through diversiﬁed crop Sustainability 2022, 14, 16861 3 of 18 rotations, integration of cover crops, green manures, and species mixtures (inter- and multi-cropping), functional biodiversity is added to cropping systems across the multiple spatial and temporal scales, which improves resource-use efﬁciency, promotes ecosystem services, and reduces negative environmental impact [21]. Against this backdrop, this study analyses the state-level data to assess the extent of crop diversity as well as its determinants. The majority of the previous studies relied on time series or cross-sectional data from speciﬁc states or districts within those states. The robustness of the ﬁndings, on the other hand, can only be determined with panel-data- framework empirical research. Speciﬁcally, the study makes the following hypotheses: Hypothesis 1. Crop diversiﬁcation happens across the states of the country in favor of commercial- cash crops by sacriﬁcing the traditional food-grain crops. Hypothesis 2. Infrastructure development through irrigation coverage, road connectivity, and credit facilities have a major boost in the crop diversiﬁcation process. Hypothesis 3. Diversiﬁcation takes place through demand-side factors, such as urbanization and higher per-capita GDP. 2. Data and Methodology This analysis is based on a set of panel data from 1971–1972 to 2017–2018 for twenty major states in the country. 2.1. Description of the Variables a.