 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT 159 ● A Book entitled “Agricultural Education - A Career Guide” has been published which serve as a ready recknor for the students seeking admission in State Agricultural Universities. This Book includes the information and full details regarding all SAUs, their system of admission, duration of courses, subject accredited, hostel facilities, fee structure, number of seats available and site of the campuses under the universities ● Leaf lamina in perlette grape was found to be most suitable for analysis of N, Ca, S, Fe, Cu and Zn, while petioles were found to suitable for P, K, Mg & Mn. Petioles from non-fruiting canes had more concentration of N, P, S, Fe & Zn but less of K, Ca, Mg, Mn & Cu. A sample size of 50-75 leaf petioles and/ or 30-40 leaves was ideal for the nutrient analysis and indexing in grape variety Perlette ● The knowledge of the CMS-specific gene region has enabled design of a robust and rapid PCR-based molecular marker for the identification of this CMS-line. This marker will be of great practical significance for establishing proprietary right and for checking the genetic purity of the material in hybrid seed lots Book Writing Scheme In the year under reference 33 titles were finalized for book writing based on revised curricula of which 18 Textbooks have been submitted by various reputed scientists. National Professor and National Fellow Scheme ● In order to standardize leaf-sampling techniques in grapes, different factors contributing variation in tissue nutrient contents like seasonal variation, position, type of tissue, fruiting and non-fruiting canes and sample size were studied by Prof. K L Chadha at IARI. A pronounced decrease in N, P, K and S concentration was observed with the advancement of the sampling period, while Ca, Mg, Mn increased regularly throughout the season. Copper and Zn however, showed irregular trends throughout the season. The nutrients in petioles opposite to clusters were found to be most stable during May and June, which would perhaps be the suitable time of petiole sampling. N, P, K and Zn contents tended to decrease in Perlette grape petioles with age. However, Ca, Mg, S, K, Cu and Mn levels were increased with age. Leaf petiole number 4 and 5 from the base was found to be the most suitable sampling tissue. A survey was conducted to find out the variation in nutrient status of Perlette grape vineyards in Baghpat and Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh. Variation in soil nutrient contents was found non-significant for N, P, K, Fe, Cu, Mn and Zn, while significant variation was observed in case of Ca, Mg and S. Vineyards with low yield records significantly higher pH, Ca and Mg and low organic carbon, P, K and Zn varied significantly with yield levels of vines. Petiole composition for the highest yielding vines, were 0.99% N, 0.40% P, 2.88% K, 1.35% Ca, 0.71% Mg, 0.29% S, 92 ppm Fe, 10.