 When grown in specific regions that are distributed throughout India, these varieties are rich in some unique properties. Because of their distinct flavour and aroma, these varieties are extremely popular. The geographical distribution of these varieties, which ranges from Bengal to Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh to Karnataka, demonstrates that they develop unique qualities as a result of their growing environment. Geographical Indication has been granted to 10 mango varieties so far. Laxman Bhog, Khirsapati (Himsagar), Fazli, Dusseheri, Appimidi, Gir Kesar, Marathwada Kesar, Banganapalli, Alphonso, and Zardalu are some of the varieties available. Apart from these varieties, applications for Geographical Indication have been made for Rataul and Salem mangoes, but these varieties have yet to receive a Geographical Indication certificate. Benefits of Geographical Indication 1. G.I. provides legal protection to registered mango growers and authorised persons. It prevents the use of G.I. mangoes without permission. 2. G.I. mangoes can easily fetch a premium price, potentially increasing the producers' profits. It promotes the producers' overall economic prosperity. It also aids in the expansion of economic activities in a specific geographic region, resulting in economic development. 3. Mango brand building is promoted by G.I. 4. Mango exports are boosted by G.I. certification. It also creates a market with guaranteed security, ensuring that unauthorised individuals or fraudsters are unable to enter. 5. Mango lovers will also benefit from the G.I. certification, which ensures consistency and quality. For further interaction, please write to: Shailendra Rajan (Director), ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 101. *Corresponding auther e-mail: srajanlko@gmail.com Table 2. Some unique characteristics of G.I. certified mango varieties Variety Uniqueness of variety Laxman Bhog y y The colour of the fruit skin is appealing. y y The pulp is firm but melting, and the fibre is almost non-existent. y y Excellent flavour. Khirsapati (Himsagar) y y The colour of the fruit skin is appealing. y y The flavour is characteristically pleasant, and has a sweet taste. y y There are fewer fibres. y y Good keeping quality. Fazli y y Sweet and firm flesh but juicy. y y Fibre is very less. y y Very pleasant flavour. Dusseheri y y Pleasant characteristic flavour and high sweet taste when fully ripened. y y Fibre less. y y Good keeping quality. Appemidi y y Special variety of pickling mango y y The fruits are fragile, low in fibre, and have a sour taste. y y Latex has a very strong aroma. Kesar y y The Kesar mango orchards are found in specific areas of the Junagadh region that have ideal climatic conditions and natural soil conditions for cultivation. y y The variety has the naturally occurring organoleptic characteristics of taste, aroma, pulp colour and mouth feel when combined with improved agro techniques.