 After conducting benchmark survey about the irrigation of ponds owned by the farmers in these villages, a strategy for technological intervention to increase the productivity of the pond was adopted. The farmers were contacted and enlightened about the potential of using their ponds as income-generating avenue by adopting scientific fish culture. By replacing age-old stock with appropriate densities of carp fish seed of catla, rohu, mrigal etc. and by managing the pond environment appropriately, they could get maximum benefit from periodical and enhanced harvests. Thus, interest was generated for additional income through scientific fish culture, which might generate self-employment. The villages had a total of 15 ponds of size 0.03 to 0.06 ha and all had mixed fish stocks, which were infested with weeds and Tilapia. Six new ponds were dug in these villages with the aid from agriculture department for irrigation and fertility. The farmers were given training on efficient management technique and taught about stocking density and stocking ratio, quality of seed, feed and feeding and fish- health care. Adoption of improved mixed carp farming techniques could increase the production from nil to 2,500- 4,300 kg/ha. The income generation ranged from Rs 1,800 to 19,500/year from the available water area, depending on the size of the fishes harvested, types of pond management and care taken during fish culture activities. This had tremendous impact on farmers’ household economy in the villages. Special interest was created to transfer technology of induced fish breeding and seed production in these villages to solve the problem of fish seed procurement and get the advantage of entering into fish seed business for boosting income through seasonal activity. Freshwater fish production in a village pond under composite fish culture disease and the beetle population was suppressed and palm damage was brought down to insignificant levels. However, the damage level crossed ETL in Bambooflat during 1994 and in Sippighat in 1997 warranting further release of the virus. Accordingly, the virus was released in Bambooflat and Sippighat during 1999. The damage level assessed in Viper Island in 2000 was well within ETL. The virus release effected during 1999 in Sippighat and Bambooflat resulted in decline of palm damage in those areas. Control of rhinoceros beetle’s grub by infecting with baculovirus. Left, healthy grub; right, baculovirus-infected grub DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 188 VIVEKANANDA PARVATIYA KRISHI ANUSANDHAN SANSTHAN, ALMORA Crop Improvement A high-yielding (4.9 tonnes/ha) rice variety Vivek Dhan 82 was released for irrigated, transplanted conditions of hills of Uttaranchal, Himachal Pradesh and Meghalaya.