 Contents RAIN WATER MANAGEMENT Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser : Location of use of the ITK Experimenters 105 Rain-water management for teak (Teetona grandis Linn, f.), mango (Mangifera indica Linn.) and neem (Azadirachta indica A. Juss) in arid and semi-arid regions This practice is to retain rain water in the soil and to grow trees, particularly mango, neem and teak, which are best suited for arid and semi-arid regions. The practice is appropriate for a garden or estate where teak, mango or neem trees are grown. A circle in the soil is made around 1-year-old teak trees within a distance of 30 cm. Along the line of the circle, a hole of 7.5 cm depth is made. During the first year, at the time of rainy season, rain water gets collected in these holes. This technique may be adopted in areas where there is less water available. When the tree is 2 years old, a circle can be made at a distance of 1.2 m alongwifh 1.8 m deep holes on the circle. Similar circle at a distance of 1.8 m can be made when the tree is 3 years old alongwith 2.7 m deep holes on the circle to retain water in the successive year. This has been in practice for the last 2 years. There is no practical risk and it is easy to handle, less labour intensive and best suited for such trees. This is in practice in Periakovilankullam village of Tirunelveli district in Tamil Nadu. Thiru S. Murugesan, Periakovilankulam, Sankararkovil, Tirunelveli district, Tamil Nadu 627 953. Periakovilankulam, Sankararkovil (P.O.), Tirunelveli district (Tamil Nadu) 627 953 Dr S.V.K Hiswaran, Associate Professor, Forest College and Research Institute, Mettupalayam, Coimbatore 641 301 (Tamil Nadu) Dr G. Subba Reddy, Head, Division of Crop Sciences, Dr N.N Reddy, Senior Scientist (Horticulture), Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad 500 059 (Andhra Pradesh) METHODOLOGY An unstructured interview was conducted to obtain the details of the ITK prior to conducting the experiment. The experiment was laid out at Forest Research College, Mettupalayam (Tamil Nadu) for 3 years (2002-2004) for trees of teak, mango and neem to assess the effect of soil Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE moisture-conservation practices by making micro-depressions around the basin of the plant (ITK method). This was compared with the conventional basin method for the first and second years. Mulching with pebbles was introduced to the above mentioned two treatments during the third year. As a part of cross validation, the experiments were conducted at Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture (CRIDA), Hyderabad with grass mulch in 3 years old trees of mango and teak during third year 2004. The same experiment with grass mulching was taken up for experimentation at Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad. Experiment Mettupalayam Teak and Neem: The experimental plot was of 0.