 The journals have enrolled subscribers, and the books are wellread. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INFORMATION CENTRE Information Services of the ICAR The Research Project Files Unit patterned on Current Research Information System (CRIS) of the USDA had been started in 1967. In 1975 the Council began participating in the FAO-sponsored International Information System for Science and Technology (AGRIS). From 1977, the Unit has been renamed Agricultural Research Information Centre (ARIC). The ARIC maintains and provides information on agricultural scientists in the ICAR institutes and agricultural universities, It also works as a National Input Centre for AGRIS and annually contributes more than 4,000 inputs (abstracts of research papers) of Indian origin to the AGRIS. In return the computerized AGRIS Database is available to the Centre for operating Selective Dissemination of Information (SDI), a service for the benefit of ICAR scientists and those in agricultural universities. The ARIC also brings out Directories of Agricultural Personnel, Conferences, Research Schemes on Agriculture and Animal Sciences and Research Workers in India. The ARIC provides training in information management to FAO nominees from the developing countries. PUBLICITY AND PUBLIC RELATIONS Green Revolution has two vital inputs — research and mass awareness. The Publicity and Public Relations Unit had been added to the Publications and Information Division in 1969 to ensure its complete impact. The Unit has acquired independent status of late. This unit is responsible for dissemination of information about major research findings of the Council through mass media, press releases to the newspapers, organization of press conferences, press visits, supplement and feature articles in newspapers. BESIDES... Periodical broadcasts and telecasts are arranged on subjects of importance. National and international exhibitions are organized on special occasions. For the rural masses, documentaries and films are produced. Research Accomplishments A village in Kerala ae Our wide diversity of flora, fauna, edaphos and climate — is both a blessing and a challenge. It opens as many vistas and requires as many solutions. It teaches us the essence of sustainability. Indian agriculture is an outstanding example. 6 i | i | agricultural research Watershed-based management approach, an alternative to shifting cultivation, is now a practice in the North-East Hills Region of India % ie me - w Sm tay ‘ . " St a : ~ = vo + Rite. 7 Se Aaae Sein ss re " ve - ® ae ? 2 de In spite ¢ of ‘the fact that we can count on our: research. breakthroughs in different disciplines of agricultural seas, there is enough room for further growth in agriculture, Our agricult ural force i is 70 per cent of the population, inhabits 600, 000 villages, and cultivates 184 million hectares broadly _ demarcated into 20 agroclimatic zones, that cater to incredibly % bo habits. oN nif t- afte.