 This bill will help small farmers who do not have means to either bargain for their produce to get a better price or invest in technology to improve the productivity of farms. The bill, further, allows barrier free interstate or intra- state trading of farm produce. Farmers will get better prices through competition and cost- cutting on transportation. Government has also introduced a Kisan Credit Card scheme to save farmers from high-interest rates usually charged by money-lenders in the unorganized sector. The interest rate can be as low as 2% under this scheme. Moreover, the repayment period is based on the harvesting or marketing period of the crop for which the loan amount was taken. 2.3. Gandhian Principles on Organic Agriculture “The world has enough for everyone’s needs, but not for everyone’s greed” is a famous Gandhiji’s quote that promulgates ethical principles against overexploitation of the natural resources. We are the trustees of the natural resources available to us and not the owners. We need only to use the resources conservatively and effectively to satisfy our needs and not for accumulating wealth to quench our greed. He wanted the farmer to consider the earth as his mother. To protect the mother earth, he emphasized the extensive use of livestock and organic fertilizer for agricultural activities. He also explained the simple methods of producing organic fertilizers locally. We have realized, based on our experiences, the harmfulness of chemical fertilizers and over exploitation of soils and natural resources and their long lasting impacts on our production systems and sustainability in agriculture. This proved the worth of Gandhiji’s vision and thoughts on organic agriculture several decades ago. Non-organic crop and livestock production has great impacts on our environment at local national and global levels. Carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions, chemical residues on the food and the environment, pesticide exposure on workers, over exploitation of soil and water and land resources and unintentional but deleterious impacts on the production ecosystem and wildlife are of concern and needs attention. Food Safety is an issue for the consumer and the governments because the modern food production-transportation-processing- marketing chains expose consumers to chemical residues, additives, microbial pathogens and other such issues of great concern to human health. Traceability, quality inspection and Ethics in Agricultural Science: Gandhiji’s Principles 176 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR transparency are important in a food supply chain for safe food supply to the consumers. Gandhiji advocated strongly that the agriculture in India should be organic. He emphasized that every farmer should make efforts to return to the mother earth of what has been used for growing the crop.