 Further monsoon rains from the southwest direction will have less impact on wetting the side wall of the structure, where onions will remain dry during the rainy season. This structure maintains cool, dry and well-ventilated conditions for proper storage. Table 1. Design specification for single span onion storage structure Parameter Specifications Type of structure Single span hut shape Structure orientation East-West Length 60 feet Width 5 feet Side height 6 feet Ridge / center height 7 feet Floor height from ground level 2 feet Erection and storage process: The material required for the structures can be easily sourced from the local market and details are given in Table 2. Once the material is ready, the erection of the structure can be done in five hours. The structure consists of 12-unit frames spaced at 5 feet distance from the unit to a unit which are fastened with nuts and bolts. Further, these individual units are inter-connect with the bottom, middle and upper supporting MS pipe through the length of the structure (Fig. 2). Table 2. Material required for erection of low-cost onion storage structure Material Specifications Square MS pipes 1.5 × 1.5 inch with 2.5 mm thickness = 300 kg 1.0 × 1.0 inch with 2.5 mm thickness = 70 kg Metal wire mesh 5 feet width (1.5 inch) Shade net 120 feet length × 8 feet width with 70% shade factor Tarpaulin sheet 60 feet (400 micron) Other fixing materials Nut-bolts, GI wire, nylon rope Fig. 2. Inter-connected of structure using MS pipes Once the frame of the structure is erected, then a metal wire mesh is placed from the inner side of the structure and tied at the top, middle, and bottom with binding wire. Later nylon rope is intertwined in a zig- zag manner for additional support to avoid stretching or widening of the structure once the onions are stored. The structure is covered with the hut shape arches, then GI wire is placed over the roof to support the cladded shade net and tarpaulin (Fig. 3a and 3b). Fig. 3a. Placing of arches on the structure May–June 2023 41 Micro-climate and storage capacity: The microclimate inside the structures remains most congenial for better storage life of the onion. Since the metal wire mesh is used as a side supporting material, it will help in proper ventilation. Further, the shade net is covered over the structure during the summer months until the first monsoon rains. In contrast, traditional structures are covered with tin sheets which inherently builds up the temperature inside the structure, whereas in this type of structure, the shade net blocks the intense solar radiations to avoid temperature build-up inside the structure. Since shade net is a porous material, it will help to exchange inside warm air with the open air. The storage capacity of this structure is up to 300 quintals. Cost of the structure and storage losses: The structure is made of square MS pipes and other accessories are of very low cost.