 The standardization of photoperiod and temperature and plant growth regulators (PGRs) on rapid cycling for a panel of 16 chickpea varieties representing all agro- climatic zones in India was carried out. On an average, 60-95% flowering was induced under the RGT conditions. Of the 15 varieties tested, 6 showed 70 to 100% flowering within a range of 32-35 DAS, the generation time for these genotypes that normally have 100-120-day cycle was reduced to 60-70 days. The long duration genotypes that normally fall under 120-150-day duration class were reduced to 70-80 days. Similarly, the “recipes” for enabling pearl millet was developed in temperature- controlled culture rooms supplemented with LED lights at a temperature of 35/30 °C temperature (day/night) to optimize early flowering and seed harvest at different plant densities to enable rapid cycling of large populations, which is ideal for single seed descent (SSD). In groundnut, three short duration cultivars (less than 90 days duration), Three Medium duration cultivars (100-120 days) and two long duration cultivars (120-140 days) were studied for recipe development. Culture conditions were set between 28/25 °C temperature (day/night) and photoperiod of 12 h to create conditions that leads to early flowering and seed harvest. Within 32 to 36 days, 50-100% entered into reproductive phase treated with PGRs, with no flowering induction under control conditions. These methods are now being standardized with a range of genotypes with different durations. Exposure visits for facility and recipes organized for NARS during three field day visits during 2019. The sub-project on New Breeding techniques (NBTs) for addressing rancidity in pearl millet for enhanced flour shelf life addresses the problem of rancidity in pearl millet that is a big impediment towards producing commercialized ready-to- cook and ready-to-eat products from pearl millet. Over 30 pearl millet lines stored at accelerated ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 32 storage conditions (35°C & 70% RH) for 21 days were analyzed for rancidity indicators. Significant diversity in both oxidative and enzymatic rancidity profile was observed among the selected lines. While acid value showed a continuous increase, enzyme activities increased up to 10th day and then declined gradually. There was also a significant change in the flour odour and taste while becoming rancid with variance of humidity, temperature and the genetic background. However, the rancidity- induced olfactory variations were slow in samples stored at accelerated conditions when compared to the samples wetted with 30% water. Based on the biochemical and organoleptic study, qualitative and quantitative relationships between rancidity indicators are being established during the study.