 Indian Farming 20 December 2023 Plants can also be raised by using stem cuttings of 10-15 cm length with 4-6 nodes. The cuttings should be taken from actively growing plants during mild weather avoiding extreme cold or hot months. Lower leaves of the cuttings are trimmed and the cuttings are planted in the bed keeping one node inside the soil. These cuttings should be raised under partial shade and high humidity for fast root development. Water should be sprinkled on daily basis till root formation occurs, which takes 10-15 days. The rooted cuttings are then transferred to sleeves filled with soil, sand and FYM mixture (1:1:1 ratio). These cutting raised plants need to be irrigated twice a week. Generally, 50-60 days old seedlings with about 15 cm height or rooted cuttings or tissue culture raised hardened plants are transplanted in the field during the months of March-April or June-July avoiding the periods of extreme temperatures. However, the date of transplanting should be adjusted as per the local weather conditions. Transplanting is done in raised beds or flat beds at a spacing of 45 x 45 cm and 45 x 30 cm in high and medium fertile soils, respectively. With 45 x 45 cm spacing, 30,000 seedlings are enough for one acre. Pinching of the apical bud should be done after establishment of plants to enhance bushy growth with lateral branches. Manures and fertilizers Stevia requires a moderate level of nutrients. Therefore, among agronomic practices, nutrient management is the most important factor for higher leaf yield and quality of stevia. Fertilizer dose of 100-120 kg nitrogen, 40-50 kg phosphorus and 50-60 kg potassium per hectare should be applied. For organic farming, well rotten farm yard manure @ 20-30 tonnes/ hectare is required. The requirement of manure and fertilizer depends upon cropping mode and soil fertility status. Water management First irrigation is given immediately after transplanting and subsequently after three to five days interval till establishment of the plants. Thereafter, watering up to a depth of 5 cm is done weekly until monsoon rains commence. Regular watering is required during hot summer. Drip irrigation system economizes the irrigation water requirement. Excessive moisture levels can have detrimental effects on the crop because stevia cannot tolerate water-logging. Therefore, proper drainage facility should also be established while preparing the land. Weed management Weed growth is the major challenge in stevia cultivation which limits the plant growth and ultimately the crop yield. Stevia plants grow very slow initially and are unable to compete with weeds which come up rapidly due to favourable growth conditions. Therefore, regular weeding is required at 3-week interval during first two months to avoid crop weed competition. Mulching with plant residues or plastic sheet has been found useful in controlling germination and growth of the weeds. It also improves the stevia plant growth.