 This indicated the impact of climate change on the performance of coconut and help the farmers and policy makers for future planning about coconut. The model projected that some current coconut cultivation areas will become unsuitable (plains of South interior Karnataka and Tamil Nadu) requiring crop change, while other areas will require adaptations in genotypic or agronomic management (east coast and the south interior plains), and yet in others, the climatic suitability for growing coconut will increase (west coast). The findings suggest the need for adaptation strategies to ensure sustainable cultivation of coconut at least in presently cultivated areas. Similarly, Biomod2 ensemble model was used to predict future suitable area for arecanut with respect to climate. The model uses different climate parameters. The study suggested that amongst the regions, Karnataka state, which at present has more than 50% area under cultivation, is highly vulnerable and more area is coming under ‘very low’ and ‘low’ categories from eastern side. Meanwhile, in north eastern part of the country, a shift in high suitable region from northwest to southwest is observed. Overall, the model prediction suggests that some parts of west and south interior regions of the country warrant immediate November–December 2024 31 consideration in order to adapt to future climate change, whereas some part of north east can be considered for future cultivation. In a collaborative effort with ISRO, ICAR-CPCRI is standardizing the technology for diagnosing adulteration in virgin coconut oil using multispectral camera. ICAR-Directorate of Cashew Research has developed the Cashew Protect website and app for identification of pests and diseases of cashew along with nutrient deficiencies using Artificial Intelligence (AI) and computer vision-based techniques. It is possible to capture data via users on the number and type of pests, diseases and nutrient deficiencies observed in different countries/ regions/districts/taluks during different time periods through this website/app. This will eventually help in early forecasting of these problems and alert farmers in time. Further, it also helps to channelize the efforts and inputs required for efficient management by the concerned agencies in an area/region of the country. ICAR-Indian Institute of Oil Palm Research has developed mobile apps for estimating water requirement in different states, diagnosing different diseases and pests, and nutrient advisor for oil palm. Coconuts are used for different purposes. Some are used for tender nut water, others for making different products like chips, virgin oil production, copra production etc. Particular maturity stage is required for different products. Gadgets with AI technology can identify the maturity stage and reduce the wastage of the crop due to failure in identifying the proper stage of maturity.