 Dendrobium hybrid Sonia 28 can have vase life of ~19 days (longest) and Sonia 17 may have ~15 days vase life while storing at 10⸰C. The Dendrobium flowers stored below optimum temperature suffer from chilling injury that causes darkening of labellum; sepals and petals may also get affected in extreme cases. The storage environment must be kept ethylene free as orchid cut flowers are quite sensitive to it. Use of ethylene absorbent or scrubber (containing KMnO4) and proper ventilation in the storage area can help to keep the place ethylene free. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Siddhartha Sankar Biswas (Scientist), ICAR-National Research Centre for Orchids, Pakyong, Sikkim 737 106. *Corresponding author: siddssac20475@gmail.com Post-harvest management Harvest and economics: Dendrobium spikes possess vase life of 2 to 3 weeks. Usually, 40-60 cm long floral spikes with 10-15 flowers are harvested at a stage when all flowers are open except for the top bud. Harvested spikes should be placed in a clean water pot instantly, emerging the cut ends ~2 to 3 inches inside water. The spikes are then taken to the packing area. The packing should be cool and shaded. In Dendrobium, it has been reported that flowers harvested in early morning generally survive longer as compared to those harvested late. Depending on the grade and quality, the cost of Dendrobium spikes may range from `10 to 25 or more. In an area of 500 m2, 3000 plants can be kept. Dendrobium growers can sell ~3000 cut spikes and 3000 mother plants by three years after it starts flowering, by which one can earn ~`5 lakhs from 500 m2 area. Dendrobiums can be propagated through vegetative method and number of mother plants can be increased. Pre-cooling: After harvesting and before packaging, Dendrobium cut flowers must be precooled at 5-7oC for 1 to 2 hours. Precooling decreases breakdown of nutritional and stored materials and lowers the rate of respiration of the leaves, petals and stems and thus delays flower senescence. Besides, it decreases ethylene sensitivity of flowers and reduce water loss from it. Several pre-cooling techniques such as forced air cooling, room cooling, vacuum cooling, hyder-cooling and ice bar cooling, etc. are available. Pulsing: It prolongs vase life, promotes flower opening and improves the colour and petal size of the flowers through modified osmoregulation. Dendrobium hybrids can be pulsed by keeping flowers erect in a solution of 135 ppm Na2S2O3. 5H2O (Sodium thiosulfate pentahydrate) + 25 ppm AgNO3 (Silver nitrate) for 30 minutes increases vase life of the cut flowers. Dendrobium cv. Sonia recorded the highest vase life of 21.33 days after pulsing with 400 ppm HQ+ 4% sucrose. Bud opening: Bud opening of flowers (when kept in vase) decreases flower sensitivity to extreme temperature, ethylene and low humidity thereby prolongs vase life. Giving sufficient space during shipment allows the buds to open and extends the storage life.