 The drone must be equipped with a variety of cameras and sensors in order to use this technology to obtain different types of information. Infrared cameras, thermal sensors, laser range finders (for measuring distance), hyperspectral and multispectral cameras, image processing etc. can be implemented to collect required dataset. As the dryland crops are vulnerable to stresses, drones can provide information on both biotic and abiotic stresses. Drones can also be utilized for foliar nutrition. However, all these spray application dosages should be monitored precisely for better environmental safety. SUMMARY Advanced agricultural technologies in farm mechanization contribute for enhancing farming efficiency, productivity, and sustainability with minimum environmental impact. The technologies like spraying with drones is gaining popularity among the farmers due to its timeliness and minimum drudgery as compared to manual spraying. Initial cost of some of developed technologies is quite high in addition to the use of sensor based machinery for precise control over the conventional systems. However, these technologies can be provided through specialized custom hiring centres for advanced farm mechanization for the benefit of the farmers. *Corresponding author email: i.srinivas@icar.gov.in CRIDA E-brush cutter Indian Farming 68 January 2025 Agromet advisory services for managing extreme weather events in dryland regions Santanu Kumar Bal*, M. A. Sarath Chandran, A. V. M. Subba Rao and Timmanna ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 059 Dryland regions, characterized by low rainfall and high evaporation rates, cover approximately 41% of the Earth's land surface and are home to more than two billion people. The vulnerable dryland regions are also exposed to extreme weather events, including droughts, heatwaves, and erratic rainfall, affecting agricultural productivity severely. The increasing frequency and intensity of these events due to climate change have underscored the need for robust systems that can assist farmers in adapting to these challenges. Agrometeorological (agromet) advisory services are critical in mitigating the effects of these weather extremes by providing farmers with timely, location- specific information and recommendations. This article explores the importance of agromet advisory services in managing extreme weather events in dryland areas, highlights the integration of climate data with farming practices, and discusses strategies to enhance resilience in agricultural systems. The article also highlights the need to develop agromet advisories based on nowcasting. Keywords: Agromet advisory, Drylands, Extreme weather events A GROMETEOROLOGICAL advisory services play a crucial role in mitigating the adverse impacts of extreme weather events on agriculture and allied sectors by providing timely and location-specific weather information and guidance to farmers.