 Development of an upgraded pyrolysis process for conversion of pine needle pyrolysis oil into liquid biofuel: The pine needles were utilized for production of bio-oil through pyrolysis process to produce bio-oil, biochar and assess its feasibility as Compression Ignition (CI) engine fuel. The highest yield of pine needle bio-oil was found to be 27.6, 23.0 and 26.6 %, respectively when pine needle was pyrolyzed without catalyst and 10% ZSM, 10% CaO, as use of catalysts increased the aqueous phase in the bio-oil and decreased the organic phase. Fuel-grade refined pine needle bio-oil could be obtained by distilling the crude bio-oil between 180-240 °C by fractional distillation process. The performance of 3.73 kW constant speed diesel engine on the selected fuel blends supplementing refined pine needle bio-oil was in the range of 5-25% when compared at 100% load on the engine indicated; similar brake power-producing capability of the blends with that of HSD. The fuel consumption of the engine on blends as well as diesel is also comparable though there is an increase in fuel consumption at 20 and 25% blending because of the high replacement of diesel. The brake thermal efficiency of the engine on blends and diesel was found to be almost similar. The emission of carbon monoxide, and unburnt hydrocarbon on blended fuels were higher compared to HSD. Development of an optimized stable ligninolytic enzyme complex effective in enhancing the digestibility of paddy and finger millet straws: Treating crop residues with stable purified ligninolytic enzymes from WRF as a standardized formulation would increase the level of bio- delignification enhancing ruminant digestibility and making available the trapped energy for productive purposes. SEM images showed the structural differences in the paddy and finger millet straws between the control and the enzyme-treated crop residues. The polymers in the control straws show a linear arrangement of network Advanced flowering through paclobutrazol Profuse fruiting in Dashehari with paclobutrazol Interaction with the farmers in their orchards about the use of paclobutrazol HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 133 structure closely arranged in a lattice. On the treatment of the crop residues with ligninolytic enzymes, clear distortion in the network is observed in the SEM images showing depolymerization of the lignin residues on enzymatic treatment both in the paddy as well as finger millet straws. In vitro digestibility techniques provide a quick, inexpensive, and precise prediction of in vivo or conventionally determined digestibility in ruminants. There was a significant difference between the control and enzyme treated straws at 95% CI (p<0.0001). The model gave a mean square of 687.95 with an F value of 121.74 and a sum of squares of 4815.68.