 • Continuous surveillance and monitoring of equine diseases by NRCE has led to diagnosis and control, and eradication of equine infectious anaemia Glanders outbreaks in 2006-2007, 2010; 2012 onwards were diagnosed and controlled. • Diagnostic tests developed at NRCE are being used for (i) disease surveillance and monitoring to pre-empt the disease occurrences (ii) disease investigation and (iii) disease diagnosis to understand the source of infection and to suggest treatment, control and prevention strategies. • Six breeds of horses (Marwari, Kathiawari, Spiti, Zanskari, Manipuri, Bhutia) have phenotypically and genetically been characterized. It will help in registration of horses. This information will also be helpful in developing “Breed Signatures”. • The artificial insemination service is being provided to the farmers at the centre and at farmers’ door. • Three international OIE twinning programmes completed. • Equine piroplasmosis Lab got NABL accreditation for ISO-17025 Certification. • Patent filed: 16; Granted: 5 • Number of Technologies developed/released: 23 163 Animal Sciences 163 • The NCVTC repository has a collection of more than 4500 microbial cultures of animal origin, including recombinant clones, and phages of veterinary and animal importance. • National Biodiversity Authority (NBA) has recommended to designate the NCVTC as National Repository to Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India under section 39 of the BD Act for safe custody of veterinary related and Biosafety Level–III microorganisms. • Basic and fundamental contributions in virus-host interactions and antiviral drug development. • Identified the repurposing potential of emetine against SARS-CoV-2 for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. • Provided insights in understanding mechanisms of viral persistence/ exclusion during coinfections which has enabled developing methodologies to purify positive sense RNA virus from mixed culture. • Highlighted bacteriophage research in International phage research community through International webinars & awareness programs. Vaccines • Equine herpes Virus-1 vaccine (Equiherpabort) • Updated Equine Influenza vaacine • A modified vaccine construct for EHV1 • Ancovax-Coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19) vaccine for Animals • A Modified Attenuated Lumpy Skin Disease Virus (LSDV) Vaccine Diagnostic kits • Equiherpes B-ELISA kit for diagnosis of EHV– 1 infection • Recombinant protein-based ELISA kit for diagnosis of Glanders • Recombinant protein-based ELISA kit for diagnosis of EIA • Recombinant gG-based type-specific ELISA for differentiation of EHV1 and 4 infection • Monoclonal antibody-based ELISA kit for diagnosis of rotavirus infection • Japanese Encephalitis Virus Antibody Test Kit, iELISA for equids and pigs. • Canine SARS-CoV-2 Antibody detection ELISA Kit • Recombinant antigen-based ELISA kit for diagnosis of Trypanosoma evansi.