 Some vase solutions can be useful to help buds to open in vase. In vase solution, the sugar concentration and temperature is kept lower as compared to pulsing. In hybrid Dendrobiums AgNO3 or HQS (@ 50 ppm) can be effective for opening cut flower buds. Preservative solution with AgNO3 @ 30 ppm + HQS @ 225 ppm + 4% glucose increases bud opening and decreases senescence time of the opened florets of Dendrobium Cv. Ceasar. In Dendrobium hybrid Thongchai Gold 36 days vase life (Longest) was found with vase solution containing Al2(SO4)3 (Aluminium sulfate) @ 100 ppm + sucrose @ 4% followed by acetyl acetic acid @ 100 ppm + sucrose @ 4% (33 days). Preservatives: The vase solution should contain sugars, acidifying agent and a biocide. Citric acid and hydroxyquinoline may be used as acidifying agent and biocide respectively. Metallic salts i.e. AgNO3, CoCl2, Al2(SO4)3, ZnSO4, Ca(NO3)2 and NiCl2were found to prolong post-harvest life of Dendrobium cut flowers. Combined use of sugar + biocide + hormone (like Indian Horticulture 36 Neelakurinji: A spectacular flower of Western ghats The Neelakurinji, scientifically known as Strobilanthes spp. is a purplish flowering shrub, which blooms once in 12 years in the hills of the Western Ghats and Himalayan hills. The entire hill range looks blue once the blooming starts and retains for nearly three months. This unique lifecycle of the plant makes the hills a must-visit destination for travellers, botanists and nature enthusiasts. We must consider the Neelakurunji blooms as one of the wonders of the world and the heritage of our own Western Ghats. This article throws light on the significance, habitat, distribution and conservation status of Neelakurunji of Western Ghats. N EELAKURINJI or Kurunji or Kurinji, botanically belongs to the genus Strobilanthes spp. well known for its hues of purplish blue flowers. It belongs to a family of Acanthaceae. These shrubs produce flowers gregariously that are predominately found in the valley of Western Ghats and Nilgiri Hills of South India (Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu). The flowering cycle of this unique rare plant ranges from one to 16 years. Neelakurunji is the most prominent flower and when it blooms, the entire hill looks like a beautiful carpet of purplish blue colour making the place an attractive tourist spot. The Nilgiris, which literally means the Blue Mountains got its name from the purplish blue flowers of Neelakurinji that flower once in 12 years. History T h e f l o w e r s o f Strobilanthes spp. are mentioned as early as the 1st century in poems of the Tamil Sangam literature. Its flowering is a landmark in the lives of the Muthuvan and Paliyan tribes of Tamil Nadu who used to calculate their age. The flowering of Neelakurunji is their biological calendar. In 1936, Robinson M. E. published an article titled “Flowering of Strobilanthes in 1934” in the Journal of Bombay Natural History.