75 m energy-efficient combination of deep-sea fishing vessels with approximately 9% fuel-saving features, which is now accepted as a standard design for India’s efforts towards improving harvest from relatively less exploited deep-sea resources in the Indian EEZ. Reducing the trawling efforts and emissions, and better catch quality are other collateral gains of this innovative design. 2.1.1.2. Marine Fish Landing Estimation and Fish Stock Assessment New fishing crafts and gears technology led to a substantial increase in landings of various resources, pushing the research initiatives on the estimation of resource-wise marine fish landings. To develop a statistically sound database on catch and effort that can aid in stock assessment exercises, pilot studies were conducted by ICAR-CMFRI resulting in the development of Multistage Stratified Random Sampling (MSRS) Design for building up a time-series database on gear-wise, species-wise and season-wise marine fish production of the country during the early 1950s to 1970s. A time-series database was generated including gear-wise, seasonal and spatial fish catch data for major commercial resources. This was supplemented with real-time fishery surveys conducted by the Fishery Survey of India (FSI). This sampling scheme is still in use for collecting marine fish landings data making it probably the longest-running sampling scheme in marine fisheries, at least among developing nations. Initial forays into stock assessment began with the estimation of growth and mortality parameters of Indian oil sardine and Indian mackerel during the 1960s. The first group of fish stock assessments included stock assessments of 14 species comprising fish, shrimp and cephalopods. Following this, stock assessments of over 40 commercially important resources of the Indian EEZ were carried out applying length-based methods. In the most recent round of stock assessments, 67 stocks of marine finfish and shellfish were assessed, and it was found that 86% were being fished within biologically sustainable levels i.e., yields from these stocks are yet to attain Maximum Sustainable Yield (MSY). In addition to traditional length-based single species stock assessment models, ICAR-CMFRI has also moved into assessments using multi-species models, biomass dynamics models and ecosystem-based models. Indian Agriculture after Independence 176 Table 1. Milestones in marine capture fisheries research Year Milestone 1948 First attempt towards scientific estimation of marine fish catch. 1950 Initiation of pilot surveys across the country to assess the marine fish stock status. 1953 Launch of the Indo-Norwegian Project for modernization of fishing crafts. 1957-58 First Marine Fisheries Census was carried out. 1959 Introduction of stratified multi-stage random sampling techniques for fish landing es- timation. 1962 Trawl net designs were developed for Indian conditions.