 They should get at least ~11 to 13 hours of light throughout the year. Atmosphere: Good circulation of fresh air is essential for Dendrobium orchid production, because continuous light breezes make a good supply of CO2 for photosynthesis. Watering: Over-watering as well as under-watering can be equally harmful for potted orchids. In many instances, it has been found that over-watering has damaged orchids instead of under-watering. Excess application of water may lead to root rot and several other diseases. The quality of water is very important for orchid cultivation; rainwater is suitable for watering Dendrobiums. Well water or underground water is acceptable if its content of Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) is below 120 ppm. Hard water (water with mineral contents, TDS above 120 ppm) will create hard deposits on the leaves of plants and may clog the pores on the leaves. If water is hard, it may be beneficial to periodically (once or twice a year) clean the leaves with distilled water or at least with rain water. Most orchids prefer water of pH 5.0-6.5, but water of near neutral pH can work well. Under high temperature and sunlight frequent watering is essential. Plants grown in small pots dry out quickly as compared those in large pots. Plants grown in earthen pots need more watering as compared to the plants grown in plastic pots. A hanging plant with better aeration requires more frequent watering than a plant in a pot. Fresh potting materials also need more frequent watering. The potting material should never be soggy but potted plants should be watered regularly to prevent them from becoming bone dry. Generally, watering should be done once a week, but small pots (5” or less) need more frequent watering than large pots (6” or more). Depending on the composition and amount of potting materials it will dry at different rates. Clay pots will evaporate more water than plastic pots when other factors are equal. Clay orchid pots, because of their openings, will dry out faster than regular clay pots. Grower should adjust the watering Flowering plant of Dendrobium densiflorum July–August 2023 33 habit as the season changes. As per thumb rule method, by inserting finger an inch or two in the potting media one can feel the moisture condition of it, it should be moist and not soggy; if not moist it should be watered to moisten it; and if it is soggy, it should be allowed to dry. Watering should be done only on sunny days. On cloudy, cool or rainy days, watering should be avoided. Watering should be done early in the day and not after 2 pm in summer, after 12 pm in winter and after 1 pm in spring. Normal temperature water or lukewarm water should be used, as a difference of 10 degrees or more between the temperature of the water and the room temperature may cause injuries to the plants. Watering should be done from the top till the water runs freely through the drainage holes. Humidity affects the orchid cultivation prominently; it should be ~50-75%.