 This, in fact is envisaged by the Father of Our Nation, 100 years ago. Millets, as it is called commonly, comprise of an array of small but strong grain species such as sorghum, pearl millet, finger millet, foxtail millet, kodo millet, little millet proso millet and barnyard millet. Millets are part of the Indian civilization and rural wisdom. Since time immemorial, cultivation of millets is the integral part of the Indian farming. India is considered as either primary or secondary centre of origin for most of the millets and our ancestors were domesticated the millets. “The result of reading all this literature was that dietetic experiments came to take an important place in my life. Health was the principal consideration of these experiments to begin with. 999 cases out of a thousand can be brought round by means of a well-regulated diet, water and earth treatment and similar household remedies” (MK Gandhi, The Story of My Experiment with Truth). Consuming all-cereal-based foods in the last 50 years and less diversification in the food plate causing health risk to the population. The current food habits ultimately lead to development 120 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR of life style disorders such as diabetics, obesity, less immunity and other diseases like cancer. Diversification of food plate is a necessity and food must be diluted with millets since millets by nature bestowed with pack of nutrients which are gluten free and alkaline forming in the gut. The antioxidant components of the millets are very important for the human health since they have anti-cancerous properties, boost immune systems and delay the ageing. These nutrients are important for school-going children, pregnant women and also the other social groups of all ages. Selling antioxidant-enriched millets would economically viable for the start-ups as well as the existing commercial companies through niche-markets. The routine consumption of nutritionally-enriched millets will improve the overall health of the population. Expenditure towards health will be minimised which in turn reduce the burden on public health system. Physically and mentally sound population will significantly contribute to a better society as a whole. Additionally, development of niche market for the antioxidant- enriched millets will fetch more income to the farmers and seed companies. Selling antioxidant- enriched millets would economically viable for the start-ups even at village-level through niche-markets. All these factors directly and indirectly contribute to the village economy and improve the livelihood of rural families as envisaged by Gandhiji. 2. Mahatma’s vision “What Mahatma Gandhi said of the role of food in a human being’s life in a 1946 speech at Noakhali, now in Bangladesh, remains the most powerful expression of the importance of making access to food a basic human right.