 Residual effect on fruits Higher persistence in soil does not match with its residue level in mango fruits which might be due to the biodegradation of PBZ or decreased hydraulic conductivity of leaves and thereby reducing its translocation to fruits. Its residue was detected in unripe mango fruits (cv. Dashehari) below its MRL value of 0.5 mg/kg, the same was not found in fully mature fruit and its pulp. Use of paclobutrazol in mango continuously at recommended doses may not result in its residues in mango fruits at harvest at levels which may pose any risk to human health. However, in areas where paclobutrazol is applied regularly, there may be risk of environmental contamination due to its residues persisting in soil for a very long time. Degradation and persistence in orchard soil In India, PBZ has been reported persistent from 210 to 300 days in mango orchard soil of different locations. In Southern India, PBZ has been found persistent up to 210 days in 0-15 cm soil layer after its application at 5 and 10g a.i./tree. Prolonged persistence of PBZ in mango orchard soil up to 3 years was also observed from the highest dose (1.0 mg/kg at 8 g a.i./tree), which was found sufficient for inducing flowering in Dashehari and discontinuation of its application or lowering the dose in subsequent year was suggested. Paclobutrazol has a history of prolonged persistence in soil which makes it susceptible for microbial degradation. A microbial consortium having Pseudomonas sp. was found effective in degrading PBZ. Precautions 1. Wear gloves and a mask over your mouth when using paclobutrazol. Smoking and eating should be avoided while using paclobutrazol. 2. Paclobutrazol has the potential to cause minor skin and eye irritation. After use, thoroughly rinse the skin and eyes with water. 3. Because treated soil is likely to be washed away by rainfall or irrigation runoff, extreme caution should be exercised when applying soil, particularly in orchards located in sloppy areas. Extreme caution should be exercised in such areas to prevent contaminated soil from eroding into bodies of water. Furthermore, in such cases, terracing and bunds may be an effective approach. 4. Do not pollute water sources with empty cans of paclobutrazol that have been left out after use. 5. Excessive paclobutrazol use can harm mango orchard soil health, particularly the fauna and flora found in this ecosystem, resulting in low quality fruit production. 6. Paclobutrazol has a remote chance of contaminating the environment due to its low mobility and high persistence, but the risk cannot be completely eliminated. To significantly reduce residue threats, it is recommended that the optimal dose be used at the appropriate time, and that the amount of paclobutrazol applied the following year be based on the residue available in orchard soil. 7.