 Under assured irrigation, capsicum-French bean-pea, tomato-okra-broccoli, tomato- okra-cabbage, tomato-okra-toria, and tomato-okra-pea have been found economical with 300 % cropping intensity with an income potential of ` 63.87/sqm. Vegetable based diversified farming and Jhum improvement The NE region is the wealthiest reservoir of genetic variability of vegetables such as water spinach, cowpea, French bean, chillies, Indian bean, winged bean, velvet bean, Dioscorea, Colocasia, etc. These crops are an integral part of the dietary system of local communities and grown abundantly in their Jhum land or kitchen garden as mixed crop. Due to the broader adaptability of these crops, especially tapioca and sweet potato can be grown in the marginal soil on the hill slopes and tapioca as an intercrop or fence crop on the mainland boundary. Many leafy vegetables like water spinach, laipatta, amaranth, kulfa, green onion, etc., are short-duration and found suitable for different cropping systems. Vegetable cultivation in protected cultivation Different kinds of protected structures are used for vegetable cultivation. Due to mild weather in the mid- hills, naturally ventilated polyhouse is most suitable and cost-effective for year-round/off-season production of high-value crops like tomato, capsicum, king-chilli, cucumber, etc. Under naturally ventilated polyhouse, the highest yield of tomato from cultivar Megha Tomato 3 (3.05 kg/plant), capsicum hybrid Pusa Deepti (0.88 kg/plant), chilli hybrid Fungale (0.99 kg/plant), King chilli genotype Red Long (0.98 kg/plant) and cucumber, Indian Horticulture 48 Different vegetable promotional activities undertaken by ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi in NE region genotype, RCC 2 (4.28 kg/plant) have been recorded. The maximum per annum net income was found from the cropping sequence tomato (Megha Tomato 3)–capsicum (Pusa Deepti) followed by a sole crop of King chilli and cropping sequence tomato (Megha Tomato 3) – chilli (hybrid Fungale). However, the highest BC ratio (4.2) was observed from the King chilli as the sole crop followed by tomato - capsicum cropping sequence (3.5). The use of low-cost rain shelters (bamboo frame and UV films) has also been found suitable for different vegetable crops year- round/off-season production. Under mid-hills, cabbage, broccoli, palak, coriander, methi, etc., have been found highly remunerative (BC ratio of > 4.0) crops. The use of mulch and drip irrigation would significantly improve the yield, especially in the winter season (November- February), when soil moisture is scarce.