 Similar trend is being observed in postgraduate admission. The percentage of girl students is nearly 44 percent of the total student strength. This trend would continue in coming years and it is likely that number of girl students seeking admission may reach 50 to 60 17 percent of the total student strength due to fast feminization of agriculture profession. There is an urgent need to expand \ construct new girls’ hostels in all the teaching campuses. ICAR is requested to provide adequate funding support to accomplish this task. It was noted. Agenda 6.46: Special fund for century old Bengal Veterinary College cum Faculty of West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences WBUAFS, Kolkata presented the agenda. The biggest faculty of WBUAFS is the Veterinary faculty. Previously the faculty was known as Bengal Veterinary College, established by the British Government as early as 1894. Most of the veterinary departments and the administrative activities are in operation from these college building. Special fund is needed for the repair, renovation and maintenance of these buildings as well as for the construction of new buildings. It was noted. Agenda 6.47: Special fund for modernization of Veterinary Clinic and its management WBUAFS, Kolkata mentioned that as per VCI guidelines a Veterinary clinic should remain open for 24 hours and the clinic should have all modern facilities. For this purpose constant flow of fund is needed. At present WBUAFS is getting some fund from the state Government, which is not sufficient for modernization of the veterinary clinic. Therefore, ICAR is requested to allocate special fund for this purpose. It was noted. Agenda 6.48: More fund for ladies hostel and P.G. hostel (ladies & boys) WBUAFS, Kolkata mentioned that to accommodate more number of girl students in the Veterinary faculty expansion of already existing ladies hostel is essential. For the purpose appropriate additional fund is needed for the Veterinary faculty. Similarly fund is requested for extension of hostel capacity for the PG students also. It was noted. Agenda 6.49: Inter university exchange of teachers WBUAFS, Kolkata requested ICAR for fund to implement the scheme. It was informed that a mechanism for the same is under consideration. Agenda 7: Human Resource Development: Issues and Strategies Agenda 7.1: Designing a Faculty and Staff Capacity Building Model for Academic Excellence ADG (HRD) presented the agenda emphasizing that an integrative Faculty Capacity Building Initiative is needed by the ICAR-AU system to build a supportive base for our ambitious efforts to revitalize curriculum and transform campus culture with specific focus on making higher agricultural education more relevant based on identified needs and expectations of stakeholders. A task force/ working group comprising the following was constituted to identify key issues and submit its report within three months.