 Therefore, the cost-effective soil volumetric water content analysis is crucial for advancing sustainable agriculture through computerized machines and IoT development, particularly for smallholder farmers. This is due to the fundamental aspect of agricultural operations, which involves the experimental determination of soil moisture. (a) (b) Figure 7. Soil data-based monitoring system: (a) soil moisture measuring sensors and (b) layout of soil moisture monitoring system (BS—base station; DI—drip irrigation line; SS—soil moisture sensors; and AM—available soil moisture). (d) Irrigation water management using remote sensing (RS) RS systems employing information and communication technologies can produce enormous amounts of spectrum data due to the high spatial, temporal, and radiometric resolutions necessary for applications in precision agriculture. Besides, irrigation water management using RS is an advanced approach that leverages satellite imagery and Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 22 of 40 other RS tools to optimize water usage in agriculture. Studies have recognized RS as a powerful tool for monitoring crop development and assessing spatial and temporal variability in crop water use [160]. The use of RS tools can increase the efficiency of irrigation systems by providing accurate and timely data on various factors, including the characterization of surface water bodies, the forecasting of climate parameters and soil surface characteristics, and the estimation of soil moisture and evapotranspiration. With high-resolution satellite data, it is now feasible to monitor flood, drought, and irrigation management events in close to real-time [161]. RS is a cutting-edge technique; its offshoots have grown significantly in recent decades for natural resource management [162]. Various RS tools are currently developed to support operational irrigation water management by computing actual crop evapotranspiration and irrigation water requirements. This computation is possible due to the increasing availability of the high-resolution Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) time series, which allows the operational use of remotely sensed crop coefficients coupled with a soil water balance model based on FAO56 methodology [163–165]. In addition, some other examples of RS tools for water management include the TOPS-SIMS model, the SPIDER system, the HYDROMORE, and the SAMIR tool (Satellite Monitoring of Irrigation) [166–168]. These models are designed to compute spatialized estimates of evapotranspiration, the mapping of crop growth conditions, and crop water budget assessment at a regional scale based on the FAO56 method and the NDVI time series. (e) Water meters and prepaid water units in participatory irrigation management (PIM) The term PIM refers to the participation of users—the farmers—in managing the irrigation system.