 The yellow juice prepared from it cures dropsy, jaundice and cutaneous infections. Parabia et al. (2000) 330 Medicinal use of kikar The stem bark, gum, leaf, seed, fruit pods of kikar (Acacia arabica) are used in curing most of the general ailments like cough, chronic diarrhoea, dysentery, passive haemorrhages of cattle, sheep,goats, etc. Plant is usually used as alternate feed and fodder during drought. Also bark is crushed and fed in blindness in sheep/goats. Parabia et al. (2000) 331 Medicinal use of Aerua lanata The principal constituents of gorakhganja (Aerua lanata) and root like b-sito sterol, palmitate, a-amyrin act as diuretic, antihelmentic, demulcent and hence used in curing headache, lithiasis and cough. Parabia et al. (2000) 332 Ethnomedicinal use of bokat Only seed is important part containing lupeol which is used as diuretic. Seed paste cures ulcers and inflammed parts. Parabia et al. (2000) 333 Ethnomedical use of khakali kuppi Leaves, root, stem and flowers of the plant khakali kuppi (Acalypha indica) are generally used as cathartic, anthelmintic, expectorant, emetic, anodyne, hypnotic and laxative. Parabia et al. (2000) 238 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 334 Medicinal importance of shatavari Root and leaf are important parts of Satavari, Shahakul (Asparagus racemosus) containing asperagin, mucilage and saccharine matter, used as refrigerent, demulcent, aphrodisiac, galactagogue, anti diarrhoeal, anti spasmodic and also used as dewormer and cures maggot wounds. Parabia et al. (2000) 335 Medicinal use of latjira The plant, latjira, chirchita (Achyranthus aspira), has insecticidal properties and used as local anaesthetic, purgative,anodyne, astringent, alterative antiperiodic. It is used for leprosy, cough and obesity. Parabia et al. (2000) 336 Ehnomedical use of mitha zahar Alkaloid, aconitine, pseudo-aconitine napelline present in root and leaves of mitha zahar (Aconitum chasmanthum) act as antidiabetic, antiphlogistic, antiperiodic, diaphoretic, diuretic, also used as narcotic and sedative. As antipyretic, when used in large dose act as powerful poison. Parabia et al. (2000) 337 Curing common veterinary diseases by Adhatoda vasica The active substances like alkaloids, vascine, adhatodic acid present in leaves, root, stembark and flowers of the plant - adosa, basak (Adhatoda vasica), are expectorant, diuretic, antisparodic and hence used in curing cough, asthama, bronchitis. Parabia et al. (2000) 338 Medicinal uses of bhang, charas, and ganja Plant and leaves contain cannabinol, cannabideol, canbigerol, cannabidioilic acid and resins. They act as intoxicants, stomachic, antispasmodic, analgesic, narcotic, stimulant, aphrodisiac and sedatives. When used in large doses causes mental exaltation, hallucination and loss of memory. Parabia et al.