 Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/species): Arka Krishi Vriddhi is a biopesticide containing 1% wettable powder formulation of Trichoderma harzianum IIHR Th-2. 2. Target crops and delivery system: It can be delivered as seed treatment, substrate treatment and soil application in capsicum, onion, cabbage, cauliflower, crossandra, roses, gerbera, banana, grapes, guava, acid lime, papaya, tomato and egg plant. 3. Target agro-ecological zones (if any): All 4. Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated at multiple locations under All India Coordinated Research projects. The product has been tested for its bio-efficacy in three different agro- climatic regions at Karnataka, Odisha and Tamil Nadu for two seasons. 5. Whether licensed to private companies, if yes, details thereof: Yes The technology has been licensed to 110 industrial licensees all over India 6. Benefits: Arka Krishi Vriddhi had exhibited excellent ovicidal and larvicidal activity against root-knot nematode, Meloidogyne spp. and reniform nematode, Rotylenchulus reniformis. It successfully inhibited the growth of Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. vasinfectum, Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici, Sclerotium rolfsii and Fusarium solani. It also exhibited an increase in yield of 14.2 – 19.3% in several horticultural crops. Usage of chemical pesticide can be reduced by 40- 50% with a net saving of Rs.8000 to Rs.12000 per acre. This product serves as a viable option in organic farming systems and integrated nematode/disease management packages. 7. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru-560089. 69 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Arka Krishi Kawach 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/species): Arka Krishi Kawach is a biopesticide containing 1% wettable powder formulation of Purpureocillium lilcinum (formerly Paecilomyces lilacinus) IIHR Pl-2. It is a nematophagous fungus strongly parasitizing the eggs, egg masses and females of plant parasitic nematodes. 2. Target Crops and delivery system: This bioagent can be inoculated as seed treatment, substrate treatment and soil application in all horticultural crops. 3. Target agro-ecological zones (if any): All 4. Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated at multiple locations under All India Coordinated Research projects. The product has been tested for its bio-efficacy in three different agro- climatic regions at Karnataka, Odisha and Tamil Nadu for two seasons. 5. Whether licensed to private companies, if yes, details thereof: Yes The technology has been licensed to 86 industrial licensees 6. Benefits: Arka Krishi Rakshak had exhibited strong antagonism against root-knot nematode, Meloidogyne sp., reniform nematode, Rotylenchulus reniformis, banana nematode Radopholus similis and citrus nematode Tylenchulus semipenetrans. It also increased the yield by 14.2 to 17.