 It contributes 40% of food production and supports 83% of coarse cereals, 81% of pulses, 70% of oilseeds, 67% of cotton, and 40% of rice (Chary et al., 2022). Out of the country’s 141 million hectares of esti- mated net sown area, nearly 80 million hectares are under dryland farming. As per estimates, nearly 40% of the net sown area in India will remain rainfed even after realizing the full potential of irrigation. It was found that 11 states have a high share of rainfed areas. These states are Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, and Uttar Pradesh. Special issue 2024] DRYLAND AGRICULTURE OF INDIA : CROPPING PRACTICES AND CARBON SEQUESTRATION S39 Difference between dry farming, dryland farming and rainfed farming? Dry farming: Dry farming is practiced in areas where the annual rainfall is less than 750 mm and the crop grow- ing season is less than 200 days. It is generally practiced in arid regions of the country; Dryland farming: Cultivation receiving rainfall in the range of 750 mm to 1150 mm is known as dryland farm- ing. Crops in semi-arid regions of the country are included under this category; Rainfed farming: Rainfed farming is practiced without irrigation in areas receiving rainfall in the range of around 1150 mm. Most of its cultivation area situated in the hu- mid and sub-humid regions of the country. History of dryland farming The First Famine Commission was appointed in 1880 by Government of India to suggest measures to tackle drought and also to suggest preventive measures to avoid famine in future. In 1920, the Royal Commission, India, noted that “the problems of cultivation of crops in tracts entirely dependent upon rainfall deserve far closer atten- tion”. • In 1923, the first systematic and scientific approach to solve the problem of dryland farming was started by establishing Dryland Research Station at Manjri near Pune. • Subsequently, during 1933-35, the Imperial (now In- dian) Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) estab- lished five Dry Farming Research Stations at Solapur, Bijapur, Hagari, Raichur and Rohtak. • A Central Soil Conservation Board was established in 1953. During 1954, 8 soil conservation training and demonstration centres were established by ICAR with focus on soil conservation techniques with secondary importance to crop production. • In 1970 the ICAR launched the All India Coordinated Research Project for Dry land Agriculture (AICRPDA) in collaboration with the Canadian Inter- national Development Agency (CIDA) with 23 cen- tres with coordinating cell at Hyderabad. The AICRPDA centres were identified based on moisture deficit index (MDI). • In 1976, the Operational Research Project (ORP) con- cept was introduced for technology assessment, re- finement, and transfer. Three ORP centres at Ranchi, Bangalore and Hoshiarpur were started.