 There has been a perceptible change in the consumption pattern characterized by declining share of Table 4: Components of Front-Line Demonstrations on Rapeseed-Mustard Components of Demonstrated Technology Prevailing farmers practices Improved varieties Line sowing (at 45 cm) Recommended irrigation (Two: at 35DAS & pod formation) Need Based plant protection measures Local varieties Broadcasting method of sowing More than two irrigations No plant protection measure 18 rani lakshmi bai cENTRAL AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY food grains and increasing share of non- food grain items in the consumption baskets, particularly of fruits and vegetables. Vegetables are vital sources of proteins, vitamins, minerals, dietary fibers, micronutrients, antioxidants and phyto-chemicals in our daily diet and therefore contribute significantly to nutritional security due to their short duration, high yield, nutritional richness, economic viability and ability to generate on-farm and off-farm employment. Increasing per capita income, health consciousness, urbanization, increasing number of working women and favourable income elasticity of demand for vegetables are also important ingredients for fuelling vegetable growth in the country. A Unit of vegetable production was developed at the University farm as an effective instrument for rapid dissemination of technology and instructional unit for students demonstrating complete technology package of production of various vegetables suitable for Bundelkhand region. A number of traditional vegetable crops like tomato, brinjal, chilli, cucumber, pumpkin, melons, gourds, okra, beans, peas, root crops, leafy vegetables, under exploited vegetable crops like basella, pointed gourd, ivy gourd and some of the exotic vegetables like broccoli, sweet corn etc are being grown in this unit since last year. The university is working on standardization of suitable package of practices for realizing optimum yield of improved varieties/hybrids of promising vegetables for A glimpse of Vegetable Production and Demonstration unit 19 Annual Report 2016-17 S.No. Vegetable No. of varieties demonstrated 20. Musk Melon 01 21. Mustard leaf 01 22. Okra 05 23. Onion 01 24. Palak 05 25. Pea 09 26. Pumpkin 02 27. Radish 04 28. Sem 02 29. Spinach 01 30. Sponge Gourd 01 31. Summer Squash 02 32. Sweet potato 01 33. Tomato 05 34. Turnip 02 35. Water Melon 01 8.3 Establishment of Laboratories It is imperative for Agricultural Universities to have the latest and high quality laboratories as agriculture and allied sciences are practical oriented and different from other conventional subjects. In order to understand the basic concepts of agriculture, the students are expected to look beyond the books and conventional classroom teaching. Effective teaching and learning of agricultural sciences involve seeing, handling, and manipulating real objects and materials.