 This ITK is being used by Shri Raju Ram of Gangana village of Jodhpur district of Rajasthan since 20 years. Keywords: hingota, bamboo stick, chirmi, placenta drop 2593 Expulsion of placenta in rural area Different methods for dropping placenta early are being followed since 20 years by people of Gambhira village of Sawai Madhopur district of Rajasthan after consulting Shri Bajarang Lal. These are as follows: (a) About 2-2.5 kg barley seed is fed to the animal just after calving. (b) Gular (Ficus glomerata) fruit with bark and leaves are taken (250 g). About 250 g of bamboo (Dandrocalamus strictus) leaves are mixed with gular fruit, bark and leaves. The whole collected material is boiled in 1 litre water. This is fed to the animal after cooling. If placenta does not drop, the dose is repeated. (c) About 2-2.5 kg sugarcane (Saccharum officinarum) leaves are fed to the animal. Placenta will drop automatically. Keywords: gular, bamboo, sugarcane, placenta drop Shri Raju Ram S/o Shri Harji Ram, Gangana, Boranda, Jodhpur (Rajsthan) 2502 Method for easy expulsion of placenta in cow Just after parturition, cows are allowed to feed 25-30 number of jackfruit (Artocarpus heterophyllus) leaves with mustard oil for expulsion of placenta. Then the cow is given warm water for a week. Keywords: jackfruit leaves, Shri Sarbaswar Sahu Biragovindapur, Sakhigopal Puri (Orissa)  warm water 2611 Use of kiari leaves for removal of placenta and leach If placenta remain inside the female animal after delivery and does not come out in a natural way, then leaves of kiari are fed to the animal. The placenta is expelled immediately. These kiari leaves are also used to bring out leach from the nose of the animal. The problem of leach in the nose of animals is very common in the areas. Sometimes when an animal takes water from the ponds or the paddy fields where the leaches are there, these leaches enter in the nose of animal. The farmers extract the juice of leaves of kiari and put it in the nostrils of the animals that bring out the leach. This a local treatment for retained placenta and leach in Dhral area of Rajori district of Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: kiari leaves, removal of placenta, leach Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E- Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2578 Easy expulsion of placenta in animals by using feed mixture Many a times, it becomes problematic for animals to expel the placenta after delivery of calf. In such cases the animals are administered with a feed mixture of dalia, dahe, desi ghee and gur at the culmination of pregnancy and just after the birth of new born calf. It helps in immediate expulsion of the placenta.