 In well-compacted stover, the temperature rises over 10°C after one week. Successful treatment is indicated by change of colour to dark yellow to brown with strong ammonia odour. Treated stover is softer, highly palatable to cattle and results in body weight gain and enhanced milk production in feeding cattle. Green forage Single-cut sorghum and multi-cut pearl millet varieties may be cultivated for green fodder or forage (Table 2). In rainfed conditions (kharif), single-cut cultivars may be taken up while multi-cut types need assured irrigation (summer and kharif) after each cut, to facilitate fresh foliage growth. Pearl millet uses less Indian Farming 21 January 2023 water per unit of forage production, tolerates both lower and higher soil pH, higher aluminum concentration, and is rich in minerals as compared to sorghum. However, sorghum has a wider range of adaptability and is more widely grown. The derivatives of sorghum × sudangrass annual multi-cut hybrids are best suited for green fodder. Young plants of sorghum contain HCN and pearl millet contains oxalates which are anti-nutritional factors. Their concentration gradually reduces as the plant growth advances. Latest cultivars of these crops are tested to be safe to feed, as these constituents are far below the threshold limits to cause any toxicity at the stage of cutting for forage. In finger millet, under irrigation with proper management, 12–14 tonnes of green fodder per hectare can be obtained in about 50–60 days. When cut 2–3 times during the growing season, it can yield up to 33 tonnes green forage per hectare. Green forage from kodo millet is readily eaten by cattle and is highly digestible up to flowering (70–75% dry matter digestibility). Bajra-Napier hybrid Round-the-year supply of green fodder has been made possible in India by developing perennial Bajra- Napier hybrids. Bajra-Napier hybrid, an interspecific cross of bajra (Pennisetum glaucum) and napier grass (Pennisetum purpureum), is a multi-cut fodder and has become highly popular due to its high yield, nutritive value, digestibility, palatability and survivability (perennial) for longer periods. It is a tall and high tillering grass with more dry matter production per day and high regenerability on cutting. The bajra- napier hybrids combine quick re-growth, non-hairiness, narrow long leaves, thin stems, high leaf-stem ratio, high forage quality, low oxalic acid and high forage yield. It is suited for irrigated conditions, specifically in dairy farming situations. It contains 8–10% of crude protein and 28–30% of crude fibre. It is ideal for feeding as green fodder and making silage and hay. With the increasing demand for green fodder, there was an upsurge in the requirement of bajra-napier hybrid due to its wide acceptability among farmers. Due to absence of seed setting, rooted slips are the sole method of its propagation and about 40,000 rooted slips are required to transplant one hectare area.