 CONCLUSION On the basis of results obtained, it may be concluded that the ITK is effective in controlling rice caseworm at par with the efficacy of chlorpyriphos. PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code : 365 Title of the ITK : Planting of wild Saccharum spontaneum in paddy field for controlling leaf folder Description of the ITK : Wild sugarcane (Saccharum spontaneum) twigs of height 4 to 5 feet and 4 to 5 cm diameter are planted after 15 days of transplanting in rice field for control of leaf-roller. These erected branches harbour the predators at the time of occurrence of leaf-roller, thereby suppressing the incidence of pest. About 90% farmers in the Benakunda village of Ganjam district in Orissa adopt this practice. Extent and coverage Paddy is grown in rainy (kharif) season only in Benakunda village. The area covered under paddy is about 30 ha. Besides paddy, farmers also grow pulses, oilseeds, vegetables etc. In rice, caseworm a leaf-roller is a major problem. It makes appearance every year in a devastating form. In a survey out of 90 farmers, about 30 farmers experience caseworm (leaf roller) infestation in their fields each year. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Birendra Nayak, Bhanjanagar, Ganjam (Orissa) 761126. Location of use of the ITK : Village-Benakunda, Block-Bhanjanagar, Ganjam (Orissa) 761 126. Experimenters : Dr (Mrs.) Mayabini Jena, Senior Scientist and Shri K.S. Behera Senior Scientist, Department of Entomology, Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack (Orissa) 753 006. METHODOLOGY Location Efficacy of wild Saccharum spontaneum in paddy field for controlling leaf roller (caseworm) was evaluated by participatory rural appraisal (PRA) and experimental methods. The participatory rural appraisal was done at village Benakunda, block Bhanjanagar, Ganjam (Orissa) and the experiments were conducted at Central Rice Research Institute (CRRI), Cuttack (Orissa); village Benakunda, block Bhanjanagar, Cuttack (Orissa) and village Vogra, block Athagarh, Fig. 1. Wild sugarcane plantation in rice field for control of caseworm   PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Cuttack (Orissa). PRA and field study Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) tools were applied to determine the efficacy of wild Saccharum spontaneum as compared to insecticide treatment.The study was conducted at Benakunda village, covering 10 practitioners. The parameters studied were: reduction of caseworm (leaf roller) and percentage of plant that became healthy 1 month after application. Experiment Field experiments were laid out at three locations i.e. at (i) CRRI, Cuttack, (ii) village Vogra, and (iii) village Benakunda. At CRRI Cuttack the following treatments were taken, i.e. planting Saccharum spontaneum at 7 days after transplanting (DAT), planting of Saccharum spontaneum at 14 DAT, planting Saccharum spontaneum after infestation, foliar spray of insecticide (Imidacloprid) @ 0.05 kg ai/ha and untreated control . Seeds were sown on 5 July.