 This is a very important change in the design and management of irrigation facilities (Anand et al., 2017; Karunanidhi et al., 2020a; Chaudhary et al., 2024). A wide range of irrigation measures have been commonly used to assess quality of groundwater in terms of irrigation, including sodium absorption ratio (SAR), sodium percentage (Na%), permeability index (PI), residual sodium carbonate (RSC), Kelly Ratio (KR), and magnesium hazard ratio (MHR). To evaluate the overall water quality for irrigation purpose, Irrigation water quality indices are highly effective tools for assessing groundwater quality in relation to agricultural practices. IWQIs can assist in simplifying the interpretation of complicated water quality data (Gaagai et al., 2023). Irrigation Water Quality Index (IWQI) is an important technique, introduced by Meireles et al. (2010) and is extensively used by Hussein et al. (2024), Nath et al. (2024), Ravi et al. (2023), Saraswat et al. (2023), Giri et al. (2022) and Sharma et al. (2021). These indices depend on the characteristics and levels of salts present in the water, with issues regarding the decline in water quality including increased salinity, diminished permeability, and the risk of contact with highly hazardous substances. A range of techniques have been conducted to assess water quality for agricultural use by trans­ forming various physicochemical factors into a unified metric that re­ flects the appropriateness of water quality for irrigation (Salem et al., 2023). Traditional methods for evaluating water quality often have significant costs and require considerable labour, especially for farmers in emerging nations. In response to this challenge, there has been a growing utilization of machine learning (ML) models over the last few years to forecast IWQIs of aquifer systems by employing physical char­ acteristics as features. In recent years, there has been an increasing application of ML to assess water quality across various studies, owing to its capability to address complex problems and elucidate the relation­ ships between input and output data (Al-Mashreki et al., 2023). Globally, ML uses inductive theories to analyse data and “learn rules” in place of predefined formulas. ML is highly accurate, versatile, and practical (Zhu et al., 2022). Some of the advantages of ML models include a nonlinear framework, the ability to predict complex phe­ nomena, the handling of big datasets of varying sizes, and the handling of missing data (Mokhtar et al., 2022). Eid et al., 2023 used support vector machine regression (SVMR) to predict irrigation water quality indices (IWQIs) during the calibration phase, achieving R2 values ranging from 0.90 to 0.97. Additionally, during the validation phase, R2 values ranging from 0.88 to 0.95 were obtained. Gaagai et al.