 The FIS diagnostic system to adjust temperature and humidity in outdoor oyster mushroom growing unit at ICAR-IIHR, Bengaluru saved 30% water in comparison to time based manual operation system. These preliminary Papaya tree identification in between tomato Numbering of each tree to identify crop, age Low altitude remote sensing of multi crop identification Mosic image of test site (approx. 30 acre). Multi crop identification, segregation and count Module and protocol for assessment of the crop acreage (area) with crop signature of mango using ground truth, UAV and satellite data together with > 85% accuracy Assessment of the crop acreage November–December 2024 7 studies indicate that Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs) can provide accurate and highly effective services to achieve improved yield and quality. The real-time data collected by sensors located in the cultivated fields may be used by experts or by automated systems to make decisions. Additionally, since a WSN does not require the deployment of wires, the need for human intervention is minimized. Thus, it is expected that WSNs will become a low cost yet effective approach for the monitoring of fields in the near future. In water management, early detection of possible floods or water logging conditions in the field that could be destructive for the crops, can be mitigated by timely pumping of the water by streamlined coordination between different working groups. Digital solution for greenhouse horticulture In smart and data-driven greenhouse horticulture, every object in the greenhouse such as plants, containers, greenhouse sections, and equipment can be virtualised and remotely controlled. The growers are able to monitor and control operations remotely, based on real-time digital information instead of direct observation and manual tasks on-site. The alert sent by the sensors /system of any expected issues, can be inspected by desktops or smartphone by viewing a rich digital image of the plants or equipment concerned. The growers can simulate corrective and preventive actions. This offers an optimum environment for the crop which leads to a better quality harvest. The sensor-based irrigation and fertigation system provided higher yield with better quality traits such as TSS, phenolics, and lycopene in polyhouse grown tomatoes as compared to open field grown produce. The disease and pest monitoring, even pollination management in greenhouse horticulture, can be manged with the sensors and desired action may be taken. Real-time pest and disease monitoring The use of sensors, real-time images, data analysis, artificial intelligence and robots can help in catching any problem or disease early. This is because it can identify any changes in the environment or behaviour of the crop. It can alert the workers to take immediate action. This helps in preventing the disease besides improving the crop quality.