 The terms of trade showed a positive increase during 2015/ 16 to 2018/19. Cropping intensity was used for evaluating the change in income and there is an increase in cropping intensity from 149% in 2015–16 to 154% in 2018–19. Livestock and fish production was considered keeping in view its important role in enhancing farmers’ income. Policy imperatives for promoting value chains of agricultural commodities in India Buffalo meat: This study assessed the performance of buffalo value chain in terms of transaction costs and distribution of benefits realised by various chain actors. Further, risk analysis was carried out to identify the disease risk hotspots in the value chain. The quantitative mapping showed that aggregators constituted the main link between farmers and live animal markets and accounted for 72% of the total flow of buffaloes to livestock markets. Of the total meat produced, 71% is shipped directly to importing countries and the rest to local markets. The risk analysis across value chain revealed the 8 risk hotspots in the value chains. These are overstocking of vehicles by traders, irregular ante- mortem examination in livestock markets, animals transported for long distances without health certificates, no measure for pre and post-movement isolation and testing, non-cleaning/disinfection of vehicles after each trip, no measure for check for pathogens at slaughter houses, lack of hygienic practices at retail outlets, and use of contaminated meat cutting wooden slabs. The findings of value chain identified structural deficiencies and vulnerabilities and provided the framework for intervention policies that can improve system efficiency. These may be helpful in streamlining the animal preservation acts in the country to promote scientific practices of meat animal production, rejuvenating the scheme on salvaging and rearing of male calves for meat production and implementation of integrated and inclusive contract farming system for meat buffalo production. Dairy start-ups: The value chain of dairy entrepreneurs was mapped based on data from 48 startups covering states of Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Gujarat and Jharkhand. It is evident that informal sector dominates in the dairy industry and 48.15% of dairy start- ups adopted direct selling of milk from producer to consumer. This could be due to realization of higher profits. These startups were focusing on quality milk supply mainly to urban dwellers in hygienic conditions like selling raw milk in clean glass bottles and few of them were selling milk of indigenous cow (Sahiwal, Gir, Kankrej) which fetched higher price ranging from ` 60 in Ganganagar (Rajasthan) to ` 110/litre in National Capital Region (Delhi, Faridabad and Noida). The consumers also preferred raw fresh milk over pasteurised pouch milk. Other channels identified were selling milk ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 131 SOCIAL SCIENCE to aggregator vendor and cooperative society.