 Dr M P Yadav, Director (IVRI, Izatnagar), is receiving Sardar Patel Outstanding ICAR Institution award 2001 NG Ranga Farmer Award for Diversified Agriculture 2001 is being given away by MoA, Shri Ajit Singh ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT 215 In the area of technology assessment, refinement and transfer, the role of Krishi Vigyan Kendras were widely recognized. This year, out of the two awards, one each goes to the ICAR Institute and State Agricultural University for their distinguished contributions under Institute-Village Linkage Programme for holistic development of farming community, and integrated pest management in cotton. ‘The Jagjivan Ram Kisan Puruskar’ was given away to a farmer from village Kailar, District Solan, Himachal Pradesh for his outstanding contribution in innovative farming practices. ‘The N.G. Ranga Farmer Award’ was conferred for Diversified Agriculture to a farmer from Tripura for developing a technique of using groundwater for aquaculture, establishment of a feed mill, developing the farming system in diversified agriculture and transfer of management practices. ‘The Rajendra Prasad Puruskar’ was given away to 8 technical books in Hindi on Integrated Pest Management, Beekeeping, Soil Conservation and Water Management, Hydrology, Poultry Management, Livestock Diseases in Humans, Indian fisheries, and Indigenous Traditional Knowledge and Practices. The Chaudhary Charan Singh Award for Excellence in Agricultural journalism has gone to a Stalwart who has a distinction of serving the cause of Indian Agriculture for more than 29 years through the laudable analytical contribution. Hon’ble Union Agriculture Minsiter, Shri Ajit Singh, gave away the prizes to the Awardees (Appendix 12). TECHNICAL CO-ORDINATION Financial support to scientific societies With the approval, the Standing Committee financial assistance was provided to 48 scientific societies for publication of journals, to 26 societies and academic universities for holding National Seminars/Symposia/Conferences and to 8 societies for holding International Seminars/Symposia/Conferences. Assistance and monitoring DARE/ICAR Annual Report 2002–2003 and Highlights of Achievements of A.P. Cess Fund Supported Schemes Manuscripts pertaining to DARE/ICAR Annual Report 2002–2003 and significant achievements of A.P. Cess Fund Supported Schemes were co-ordinated between the corresponding Heads, Subject Matter Divisions and the Directorate of Information and Publications of Agriculture. Monthly summary Compiled monthly summary on major research achievements, exports, import and other related matters of all the Institutes/Project Directorates was submitted to Cabinet, Government of India, and other related departments.