 • Practical sessions were organised for students in LAC to enhance the learning outcomes of the students and to provide the clinical experience of various categories of animals/ species. • The IoT based camera is mounted for monitoring and addressing both voice and video signals that are continuously being transmitted on the 4G communication network for remote visualization. • Necessary energy requirement is being fulfilled by the battery mounted on the robot. The battery can be charged through the solar panel mounted on the robot or electrical supply. • To improve the English language proficiency, partner AU has established a suitable facility with 3-year subscription of virtual courses by Macmillan English. • A total of 200 students have been availing the benefits through these virtual classes. Digital Intervention Brief Promoting Online and Digital Education The Academy has established the Centre of Lifelong Learning in Agricultural Education which is involved in handholding, production and organizing online learning programmes. The Center organized MOOCs in Education Management and developed more than 150 Video-lectures.Since November 2020, Academy offered one MOOC programme and benefitted about 2,356 learners across the country, impacting the quality of education especially during the current pandemic. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 122 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT Promoting Start-Ups and Agripreneurship During the reporting period eight agricultural Start-Ups were incubated. Food and agriculture accelerator programme AGRI UDAAN 4.0, organized by a-IDEA, the Technology Business Incubator of ICAR-NAARM, was launched on 17 May 2021. The a-IDEA has organized two-day national entrepreneurship ideation competition “Aggnite” to stimulate entrepreneurship among students where 211 teams from 150 top Institutes in the country, viz. Agricultural Universities, IITs, IIMs and other renowned institutions took part in the event during 24–25 September, 2021. The a-IDEA invited innovators working on innovative Idea/POC/ Prototype stage to apply for “NIDHI PRAYAS” grant up to `10 lakh in the field of agriculture and allied sectors and also sector as a BIRAC BIG Partner called application for the 18th Call of BIRAC’s Biotechnology Ignition Grant (BIG) scheme in the Agri and Agri-Biotech. Agri-BioNEST, an Agri-Biotech-focussed Bio-Incubator of a-IDEA, NAARM and Agri-Biotech Foundation organized the Global Bio-India 2021 Roadshow virtually on 25 February 2021. 4,437 participants to cater diverse capacity needs of professionals of Research Management, Scientific, Technical, and Administrative Cadres of ICAR and Faculty Members of Agricultural Universities (AUs). Agri-business and technology management: The 11th batch of PGDM-ABM successfully completed its 2- year residential programme at the Academy. All the 48 students of PGDM-ABM (2019–21) have been placed successfully in 20 reputed agribusiness companies. The package offered ranged between ` 6.