 The market information and dynamics of the sector was better understood by the entrepreneurs and acted as a bridge between economy and research institutes. The ultimate benefits of the incubation process lies in generation of new business out of it. Since business generation is a long term process, it is difficult to assess the social impact of incubation. However, the business generation and capital investment made by selected entrepreneurs can provide indicators of the economic impact of incubation. Following are the few firm having generated capital based on the DPR prepared by ABI-CIFA. Success stories Success Story of Zoofresh, Bhawanipatna, Odisha (Live fish system) The entrepreneur Mr. Sadananda Satapathy shown interest to become an incubatee of ABI of CIFA to provide fresh, local, safe products for approx. ZooFresh Foods Private Limited was established on 23 March 2016 and operates in Western Odisha. ZooFresh Foods is incubated at CIFA, Unltd India, a-IDEA NAARM, Hyderabad. It is recognized by Startup India and Startup Odisha, and was selected by the Ministry of Food Processing Table 2. Status of incubatees of ABI-CIFA during 2011-19 Enterprise types Graduated Continue Total IMC breeding 0 3 3 Murrel breeding 0 2 2 Catfish breeding 0 2 2 Fish feed production 0 2 2 Pearl farming 1 0 1 Fish processing 2 1 3 Fish waste based fertiliser 0 3 3 Plastic gadgets 2 0 2 Jayanti Rohu 5 0 5 Aqua-field school (technical service 0 3 3 Market development 0 1 1 Total 10 17 27 Indian Farming January 2020 14 Industries (MoFPI) as one of India's top 20 food startups at World Food India 2017. It is a part of FSSAI's Food Innovators Network, and has a PPP with the Odisha Poultry Federation, Govt. of Odisha.The start-up enterprises developed by ABI-CIFA are given in Table 3. Success Story of Farbon India Pvt. Ltd., Gop, Puri, Odisha (Integrated Fish Farming) Two friends Mr. Akash Mishra and Dr. Pravas Panda started an initiative in the year 2018 in Integrated fish farming which includes poultry, goat farming and horticulture at Gop, SUMMARY The entrepreneurships were developed through wide range of services provided by ABI-CIFA. Incubatees were the primary focus of incubator with Incubatees (27) engaging in large number of enterprises in the freshwater aquaculture value chain. In addition, the entrepreneurs were also provided support through skill developments, mentoring and consultancy. During last 6 years, 79 entrepreneurs/firms were supported through 27 numbers of DPRs and entrepreneurs were able to attract funding to the tune of ` 26 crores and assets generated at about ` 34.2 crores. It is estimated that revenue generation by the entrepreneurs amounted to ` 13.72 crores per year. During this period 8 technologies were commercialised. Some of the brands like Tisya Pearls Pestolyset, Bindadd, fish Mount, Veggie Plus, freshterian etc. were developed by the entrepreneurs. Corresponding author's e-mail: Nageshbarik@hotmail.com. Table 3.