 In film coating, the chemicals mostly fungicides (insecticides and other protectants can also be used) along with a polymer are applied or sprayed on the seeds though a specialized machine. The polymer dries rapidly, so that the seeds receive a complete and uniform, dry polymeric coating. Moreover, colours can be added to the polymers to code different varieties or seed lots. The colouration gives not only the seed an attractive and glossy appearance, but also has the practical use of allowing differentiation between varieties and between different types of treatment. Film coating products contain polymers, dyes and surfactants and form a fine, air- and water-permeable film that improves the distribution and retention of crop protection agents on the seed surface. The coating products contribute to significant reduction in the amount of dust released during the application of the crop protection agents to the seed and during handling and use of the treated seed on the farm. There are two types of polymers used: Hydrophilic polymer, which absorbs water uniformly and facilitate early emergence; Hydrophobic polymer, which repels water and cause delayed germination. Besides, some novel applications have also been developed using the film coating method. For example, artificial polymers (Intelimers) exhibiting temperature- sensitive permeability to water (Landec Corporation, Menlo Park, California) have been developed, which are permeable to water at warm temperatures, but not at cool temperatures. Modifying the composition of the polymer can set the temperature at which the permeability changes. Seeds coated with these polymers will not imbibe water if the temperature is below the set point of the polymer, potentially protecting the seed from imbibitional chilling injury. The coatings are also being used to delay germination after sowing, such as for timing the emergence of male parent lines at different times for hybrid seed production. Moreover, starch-based biopolymer is also being used in film coating to slow water uptake and alleviate chilling injury. Seed pelleting Seed pelleting is a process that involves forming seed samples into small and round or globular pellets of Classification of Seed invigoration • Solvent infusion • Vapour treatment • Dry dressing with inert carriers Solvent infusion: Infusion of organic solvents (hydro benzoic acid, potassium iodide, p-amino benzoic acid) Vapour treatment: Infusion of chemical through vapour (2-3 g calcium carbonate, 2-10 g Iodine) Pre-sowing treatments: Given before sowing to improve seed germination, speed of emergence, seedling growth, field emergence, crop stand and early vegetative growth. Pre-storage treatments: Seed treatments of freshly harvested seeds aimed towards protection against deteriorative senescence during storage.