 catalase, superoxide dismutase activities in liver homogenate increased significantly in CPP-Fe and CPP-Zn complex fed groups as compared to their inorganic salts fed group. Naturally fruit flavoured camel milk: A naturally flavoured camel milk having freeze dried sapota fruit powder at 5% level was found to have better physicochemical, sensory and antioxidant properties with better storage stability in aerobic packing condition at refrigerated condition compare to 3 and 7% enrich sapota fruit powder-based natural camel milk. The product with 5% level has better overall acceptability score. Milk and meat products • Developed PCR assay using species-specific primers to detect adulteration of more than 5.0% cattle/buffalo tallow into milk fat (cow ghee). • Developed Taqman real time PCR assay for detection of DNA from cattle and buffalo tallow at 1% level. • Developed in-gel and OFFGEL-based proteomic method for authenticating raw and cooked water buffalo-sheep- and goat- meat and their mixes. The study demonstrated that authentication of meat from a complex mix of three closely related species requires identification of more than one species-specific peptides due to close similarity between their amino acid sequences. • Isolation of DNA from sarcocysts extracted from buffalo-meat/oesophagus and PCR-RFLP showed the presence of S. fusiformis, S. taeniata and S. buffalonis. The zoonotic S. hominis could not be established in the survey. SUCCESS STORY All-weather biogas production exclusively from poultry excreta Industrialization and intensification of poultry farming has led to generation of poultry wastes to the tune of 28 to 30 million metric tonne/annum. These wastes are posing many environmental and health threats due to lack of proper utilization technologies/ disposal methods. A novel ‘DAC’ technology was developed for all-weather biogas production exclusively from poultry excreta. This technology was tested on a pilot biogas plant comprising anaerobic digester (200 litre) with various common components like inlet pipe, outlet pipe, gas collector, biogas compressor, gas cylinders etc. The poultry biogas burns like LPG with blue flame. The composition of poultry biogas revealed that the methane (%,V/ V) was 60.02 which is equal to or better than biogas available from other methods and substrate. The signifying point of this technology is that only poultry excreta is required for biogas production. There is no need to add cow-dung, which is commonly being mixed for biogas production from poultry excreta in other methods. This technology also helps in conservation of water as used slurry of digester is reutilized again and again as dilutor for poultry excreta. Round the year i.e. both during summer and winter biogas production is possible from this technology. It is pertinent that most of the biogas plants in India become non- functional during winter due to lower ambient temperature.