 The less-developed states included Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan, Mizoram and Sikkim. It was hypothesized that more developed states would better implement organic agriculture schemes. Further, clusters were classiﬁed based on the promotors of Regional Councils. The Regional Council (RC) is an agency authorized by the government to promote and handhold (coordinate, monitor and approve certiﬁcation decisions) local organic clusters under the PGS-India Organic Guarantee Programme. There are two types of RCs: Government- RCs and Non-Government Organization- RCs. The Government-RCs are run by the state department of agriculture (all clusters in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Sustainability 2022, 14, 15057 6 of 22 Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra). In contrast, NGOs handle NGO-RCs (all clusters in Orissa, Punjab, Karnataka and Kerala). Based on FGDs, it was hypothesized that NGO-RCs would perform better in implementing organic agriculture schemes as their strength lies in community mobilization. In contrast, Government-RCs are good at getting funds sanctioned and developing infrastructure. There is some overlap between the two classiﬁcations: a classiﬁcation based on development and promotor. The data were analyzed using statistical tools such as the t-test for quantitative data [27] and Pearson’s chi-squared test for qualitative data [28]. The paper performed a cost-beneﬁt analysis to assess the proﬁtability of organic agriculture by deducting all paid out costs in addition to owned family and bullock labor costs from the gross revenue (gross revenue: all main products and byproducts and byproducts valued at market prices). It is generally known as Cost A2 plus family labor [29]. The paid-out cost included (i) the value of hired human labor, (ii) the value of hired bullock labor, (iii) the value of owned bullock labor, (iv) the value of hired machinery labor, (v) hired machinery charges, (vi) the value of seed (both farms produced and purchased), (vii) the value of insecticides and pesticides, (viii) the value of manure (owned and purchased), (ix) the value of fertilizers and (x) irrigation charges. The study used the Difference-in-Difference (DiD) approach to assess the impact of organic agriculture at the farmer level (micro) and the economic surplus model to assess the impact at the societal (macro) level. The detailed methodology is presented in Appendix A (DiD approach is presented in Appendix A.1 and economic surplus model is in Appendix A.2). 3. Results and Analysis 3.1. Theory of Change A theory of change illuminates how activities under the organic agriculture (PKVY) scheme are assumed to produce a series of results that contribute to achieving the ﬁnal intended impacts. In an impact assessment, a theory of change helps identify the data that need to be collected and how they should be analyzed [30,31].