 This Handbook will provide information of available useful technologies to educate on how to reduce or judiciously use chemical pesticides, safeguard ourselves from chronic poisoning, save the National environment while also reducing input costs and raise farmers’ income. This compilation will be useful to teachers, students, trainers, line-department personnel and policy makers. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-x + 768 • Price : ` 1500 • Postage : ` 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-179-6 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming 20 August 2023 Recent bio-emerging strategies for paddy straw degradation under sustainable agriculture development Smriti Singh and Kailash Chand Kumawat* Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences, Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh 211 007 The world is mired with increasing agricultural waste and resulting pollution due to its inadequate management. Paddy straws, which contribute heavily to the country's total agricultural waste, are alternatively a source of energy and important nutrients when appropriately disposed. The recent advances towards the same have been mostly in the direction of generation of renewable energy; however, another eco-friendly approach is the in situ or on-field decomposition of these residues, which are rich in lignocellulose. This is possible via biodegradation of these components using consortia of beneficial microorganisms. This article discusses the advantages, mechanisms and microorganisms that can be and are being used for similar purposes. Keywords: Biodegradation, Environmental pollution, Paddy straw, Sustainable Agriculture T he staggering rise in global population, which the UN predicts to be 10.4 billion by the end of the decade, calls for an exponential increase in global food demand and production. The amount of agricultural waste that results from the increased production is one constant that goes along with it. Rice is one of the most predominantly grown crops in the world, second only to corn in terms of production, with Asia being its largest producer (about 90% of all rice grown worldwide). In India alone, paddy accounts for about 45% of all total crop production, covering an area of over 10 Mha. The growth of rice is accompanied by a large amount of waste in the form of paddy straws, which are not readily decomposed in soil by virtue of their composition. These paddy straws are rich in (a) cellulose (32–47%), (b) hemicellulose (19–27%) and (c) lignin (5–24%), which makes their biodegradation in soil significantly slower and difficult.