03 years, service period range from 1–2 years, average inter-calving period 2.03 years. Genetic characterization Cattle Spermatozoa transcriptogram database (Frieswal bulls): The database on categorized Frieswal crossbred bull spermatozoal transcripts was developed to use as a non-invasive tool for prediction of male infertility in crossbred bulls. Reads were identified among good and poor quality bull spermatozoa based on their conception rate. Post mapping with Bos taurus reference genome identified transcripts among good and poor quality RNA libraries, respectively. However, a total number of 3,510 and 6,759 functional transcripts were identified among good and poor quality bull spermatozoa, respectively. Most of the identified transcripts were related to spermatozoa functions, embryonic development and other functional aspects of fertilization. Wet laboratory validation of the top selected transcripts, viz. AKAP4, PRM1, ATP2B4, TRIM71 and SLC9B2, illustrated the significant level of expression in the good quality crossbred bull semen than the poor quality counterparts. Kisspeptin gene among indigenous cattle breeds: DNA databank of Kankrej (200) and Gir (80) maintained in the laboratory was used to amplify the Kisspeptin gene exon-1 and exon-2 comprising 334 bp and 308 bp amplicons in Kankrej, Gir cattle, respectively. By PCR- SSCP, three genotypes of exon-1 (AA- 39%, AB- 46% and BB- 15%) and two genotypes of Exon-2 (AB- 66% and BB- 34%) were observed. Two missense SNPs (G’oA & C’oT) were observed in exon-1 while one missense (T’oC) and two synonymous SNPs (G’oA & C’oT) were observed in exon-2 of bovine Kisspeptin gene in Kankrej and Gir cattle. Seven gene bank accession numbers were obtained on SNPs at bovine kisspeptin exonic region in Kankrej and Gir cattle. OAS1 protein expression at bovine PBMC: The OAS1 protein expression at bovine PBMC was assessed at day 18 post AI in pregnant and non-pregnant animals. Higher expression of OAS1 protein in nulliparous pregnant animals in comparison to open animals was observed but the difference was not prominent. Western Blotting technique revealed that expression of OAS1 was comparatively higher in nulliparous pregnant than that in non-pregnant animals. Further, the quantification of levels of protein revealed that the level of OAS1 protein in nulliparous pregnant animals was higher than the non- pregnant animals. Association of OAS1 genotypes with milk production traits: Genetic variants in the exonic regions GENETIC RESOURCES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 28 of 2, 5 oligoadenylate1(OAS1) gene were identified for associating with milk production traits in 250 cows comprising 168 Frieswal and 82 Sahiwal cattle. The genotypes of exon 6 fragment 1 of OAS1 gene had significant association with milk production traits, whereas genotypes identified in exon 2 and exon 5 did not reveal any association in both Frieswal and Sahiwal populations.