 However, in the absence of a market for modern risk management measures like insurance, a majority of farmers relies on the traditional measures, including mulching, soil and water conservation, shifts in planting dates, input manipulations, diversification into low-risk, high-value crops and animal husbandry, non-farm employment and small-scale businesses, out- migration, borrowings, and sales of non- productive as well as productive assets. Using data from the Situation Assessment survey of the National Sample Survey Office (NSSO), 2012-13, and applying the Multinomial Endogenous Switching Regression, this study estimated the impact of different risk management strategies on farm productivity and its resilience to climatic shocks. Based on their risk functions, different measures were categorized into risk-mitigating, risk-transferring and risk-coping strategies, and further combined to evolve their portfolios. Risk mitigation is the most preferred strategy, followed by risk coping and risk transfer strategies. The payoffs are higher to risk mitigation, followed by risk transfer and risk coping. Importantly, their joint adoption is more effective compared to any of these when implemented in isolation. Further, all the risk management strategies reduce farmers’ exposure to downside risk (skewness), but their joint adoption has a larger effect. These findings suggest that the traditional agricultural practices are effective in improving not only agricultural productivity but also in reducing farmers’ exposure to downside risk. Productivity and risk benefits of crop insurance versus irrigation: The uptake of crop insurance in India remains low despite significant policy and institutional support. The Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) launched in 2016 had aimed at bringing at least half of the gross cropped area under insurance in two years, i.e. by 2018, yet the target remains unachieved— by 2020-21, only one-third of the gross cropped area was covered under crop insurance. Several explanations have been put forth for limited crop insurance. However, farmers’ decisions regarding the adoption of insurance depend on its expected gains in relation to gains from the risk mitigating measures such as crop diversification and irrigation. This study estimated productivity and risk effects of crop insurance vis-à-vis irrigation to explain the low uptake of crop insurance. Irrigation improves crop yields, and it also provides partial protection to crops from the climatic shocks. Crop insurance, on the other hand, reduces farmers’ exposure to downside risk, i.e. the probability of loss in crop yield due to climatic shocks. The costs and expected payoffs of these measures also differ. Payoffs to irrigation are almost certain, while to crop insurance, these are highly uncertain as gains from insurance can be realized if crop yield falls below an administratively pre-determined threshold level.