 Buttaiahgudem and Velerpadu have villages with predominance of tribal population to an extent of 90-100%. Majority of the tribal farmers are small and marginal and they do mono- cropping of paddy, cotton or pulses on their red sandy loam soils. Cashew is the predominant horticultural crop in these tribal tracts. Their average income ranges between `28000-36000 per acre per annum. Small landholding size and traditional technology are no longer able to meet the rising demands of this tribal population. Forest resources are also very rapidly declining due to huge industrial demands and ever- increasing household needs. The collection of honey Indian Farming 74 (03): 68-70; March 2024 from wild bee colonies which has been one of the income sources for tribal families during lean periods of agriculture i.e., during November to March is slowly declining as the skill of identifying the wild bee colonies and honey extraction is not inherited by tribal young farmers. Moreover, fire and smoke that are used to rid the bees from their nests for collecting honey from wild can destroy the entire colony and can also ignite wild fires. The honey and wax obtained from such a practice are of low quality. In this context, Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), West Godavari under Dr YSR Horticultural University-initiated activities for promoting apiary among tribal youth as it is a cost effective, eco-friendly and gender friendly enterprise that requires minimum land ownership to operate and has the potential to Indian Farming 74 (03): 68-70; March 2024 Sustainable livelihood security through apiculture in the tribal tracts of West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh JV Prasad'*, E Karunasri?, Shali Raju? and Shaik N Meera' "ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 059 ?KVK-West Godavari (V R Gudem), Andhra Pradesh 534 101 In the mono-cropped tribal dominant villages of West Godavari district in Andhra Pradesh, collection of honey from wild bee colonies has been a major source of income during the non-cropped rabi season. This skill of collecting honey has been on a decline among the tribal youth over years. In order to ensure sustained livelihood security to tribal farmers during the lean months of the year, an ICAR project under Tribal Sub Plan (TSP) was launched by the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), West Godavari (V R Gudem) covering 11 villages in 2 tribal mandals viz. Velerupadu and Buttaigudem in convergence with ITDA and an NGO Raithu Nestam. The villages were selected mainly based on the abundant forage availability. Three skill training programmes on all aspects of bee keeping were organized by the KVK and the trainees were provided with Italian bee (Apis mellifera) bee hive boxes (2 each), Indian bee (Apis cerana indica) bee hive box (1 each), comb foundation sheets and 4 honey extractors per cluster. Regular monitoring visits were made to handhold the tribal youth and to clear doubts if any on hive maintenance.