 Role of sugarcane in managing elevated CO2 Plant roots release a range of intricate compounds into the rhizosphere, including mucilage, root border cells, extracellular enzymes, simple and complex sugars, phenolics, amino acids, vitamins, organic acids, nitrogenous macro-molecules such as purine and nucleosides and inorganic or gaseous molecules such as HCO3 – and OH–. Carbon can be conveyed from the atmosphere to the soil via the plant system by continuously removing exudate carbon from soil solutions via biotic (soil microbial absorption) or abiotic mechanisms such as sorption. Sugarcane, as a C4 plant has an extremely low CO2 compensation threshold, ranging from 0–10 ppm. This indicates that they can deplete all of the atmospheric CO2 in a closed ambient atmosphere at a fixed temperature. This is not the case with other crops such as wheat, soybean etc which have a high CO2 compensation point (40–100 ppm). Under high CO2 levels, the stomata and leaf transpiration mechanism in sugarcane plants are partially closed due to a C4 plant. This generates less sap flow, which increases the potential of xylem and as a result, improves the plant water status. This has resulted in an increase in sugarcane stalk fresh mass. SUMMARY The agricultural crop with the most significant potential to sequester carbon is sugarcane under ratoon crop. Sugarcane cultivation is an important tool for carbon capture, which aids in the process of mitigating the consequences of climate change. Sugarcane roots operate as a route Scenario flowchart representing the fate of the bagasse and trash C produced/ ha/year on a sugarcane field Source: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-020-76470-y Impact of increased CO2 concentrations on sugarcane crop (Misra et al. 2019) Indian Farming 32 April 2023 for transferring atmospheric carbon into the soil through root exudate in the rhizosphere. Carbon deposits beneath the soil surface due to root lysis and root exudates. Due to slow oxidation in subsurface soil, these deposits may help with long-term soil carbon sequestration. Carbon components impact production by lowering pH, mobilizing nutrients and promoting microbial growth. The volume of carbon sequestered is affected by climate, edaphic conditions, soil management approaches and the botanical and the microbiological input amount and quality. Using crop rotation, fertilizing and soil improvement is more effectively made possible by the carbon transfer via roots. Carbon sequestration undoubtedly helps in lowering the atmospheric CO2 concentration and lessen the effect of desertification, drought and salinity stress. It is the most practical strategy for sustainable agriculture. Soil carbon sequestered is employed in forestry, agriculture and act as a possible means of reducing global warming. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: rajansoils@pau.