 Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri Satya Prakash, S/o Shri Ajaypal Singh, Bichuria, Balia, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Narsing Dan, S/o Shri Chand Dan Kavia, Biral, Shergarh, Balesar, Jodhpur (Rajasthan) 342 306 Shri Rajendra, S/o Shri Babu Ram, Maheshpur (Shivsingh) Bhairpura. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3444 Use of smoke of sissoo (Dalbergia sissoo) bark and jute bag to control cold in cattle 2-3 times daily. It is useful to cure cold in animal. Keywords: cold, jaggery During the winter season, cattle suffer from cold. To overcome this, the farmers of district Surendernagar in Gujarat, use bark of sissoo (Dalbergia sissoo) and jute bag, so that the smoke can go through the nose of animals to get recovery. The efficacy of this practice is 60-70% as reported by the local people. The practice is going on since time immemorial. Keywords: sissoo, coldness, jutebag, smoke Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 3445 Treatment of glands in animals with dhatura fruits For the treatment of animal glands, a paste is prepared by grinding 100-150 g dhatura fruits and it is applied on the glands 2-3 times daily. This ITK is followed in village Maheshpur (Shivsingh) of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: glands, animal, dhatura fruits Shri Ram Auttar, S/o Shri Lekh Raj, Maheshpur (Shivsingh), Bhairpura, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) 3446 Treatment of weakness in animals with chui-mui (Mimosa pudica) leaves and buttermilk 3447 Use of mahua fruits for treatment of weak animals This practice is followed in village Khiraka of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Juice of four chui-mui leaves is taken and 500 g buttermilk is mixed with it. It is given daily to the animal. Keywords: weakness, chui-mui, buttermilk In hilly area, animal keepers of Jhadol of district Udaipur in Rajasthan provide immediate treatment to weak animals. People of the area use matured mahua fruits for this purpose. Mahua trees are in abundance. Also the villagers get mahua fruits easily from market. One kg fruit is fed to the affected animal daily for 10 days. Animal regains strength. Keywords: mahua fruits, weak animal Shri Rajender Prasad, S/o Shri Ganen Lai, Khiraka, Auadh. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Heera Lai, S/o Shri Kamla ji Kumhar, Damana (Umra Khapra), Jhadol, Udaipur (Rajasthan) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No.