 However, due to the remote nature of villages and farms, this is not easily available at the time when it is most required. Further, it may be difficult for farmers/extension workers to locate distantly placed experts for every crop and seek their help for timely management. In such a situation, recent advances in mobile technologies can help to a great extent. The smartphones have already found their place in the lives of farmers and hence can be profitably used for disseminating the correct information. In recent times, apps based on technologies such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), Visual Recognition, and Deep Learning are being developed worldwide for the identification of plants, animals, and insects including the identification of pests and diseases. Further, apps aimed at the identification of pests and diseases in specific horticultural crops have also been developed. These apps are found to be very useful and are regularly used by farmers in different parts of the world. Here, an attempt has been made to introduce a few major apps that are aimed at the identification of pests, diseases, and nutrient deficiencies. These apps are available in the Google Play Store for download. This is not an exhaustive list and there may be a few more apps developed for the purpose in different countries. Plantix (https://plantix.net/) This is the most prominent and easy-to-use app in the identification of pests and diseases through artificial intelligence technology. It can detect about 800 symptoms in 30 crops and instantly offer remedial measures. User also has the choice to contact experts in case of requirement. The app also has a fertilizer calculator which recommends fertilizer based on the crop and plot size. It is also possible to get weather forecasts for a particular farm. It can detect problems in horticultural crops such as almond, apricot, bean, bitter gourd, brinjal, cabbage, capsicum and chilli, carrot, cassava, cauliflower, cherry, coffee, cucumber, ginger, guava, melon, olive, onion, ornamental crops, pea, peach, peanut, pear, pistachio, potato, pumpkin, rose, strawberry, sugar beet, tomato, turmeric and zucchini etc. AI-DISC This app is developed by ICAR- Indian Institute of Statistical Research Institute, New Delhi. The AI-DISC is the acronym for Artificial Intelligence- based Disease Identification System Plantix app AI-DISC app November–December 2024 71 for Crops. It uses the deep learning model for the identification of problems of various crops. It can diagnose more than 50 diseases in 19 major crops and out of which, 10 are horticultural crops – cucurbits, tomato, coriander, brinjal, chilli, apple, peach, kinnow, Assam lemon, and mandarin. Agrio (https://agrio.app/) This app helps in diagnosing the problems of plants through artificial intelligence and computer vision algorithms. Once identified, it offers integrated management measures for the users to implement in their crop/field.