 These FPCs might have been formed with the support of NABARD, SFAC, private companies, NGOs, state departments or even private individuals. From the figure below, it can be observed that more than 98% of these FPCs have been formed after the year 2015. Apart from this, there are about 1500 FPOs registered under State Co-operative Society Act/Mutually Aided Cooperative Society/Trust, etc. Therefore, we can say that there are almost 10,000 FPOs registered as different legal entity existing in the country. These FPOs are distributed across all the states, though with varying density. Within the category of FPOs, the FPCs have an advantage over co-operatives in the light of their democratic and producer-member based operation and management. In a farmer producer company, unlike in a private limited company, each member has only one vote irrespective of the number of shares held. Only primary producers can become shareholders of any FPC. Each FPC is governed by Board of Directors (BoDs) selected out of the shareholder-members. Though, the BoDs may also have outside experts as independent directors, without having any voting rights. The FPC may have hired staffs including Manager/CEO to run the business operations smoothly. Thus, FPOs/ FPCs are member owned and self-managed organizations and hence, involvement of the farmer members since the beginning is essential. The basic principles behind a FPC are voluntary and open membership, democratic farmer member control, autonomy, and co-operation amongst farmers. 5.6. FPOs leveraging multi-pronged benefits to the smallholder farmers Overcoming the constraints imposed by the small size of their individual farms, FPO members are able to leverage collective strength and bargaining power to access financial and non-financial inputs, services and appropriate technologies, reduce transaction costs, tap high value markets and enter into partnerships with private entities on more equitable terms. FPOs offer the farmers advantages that come from higher scales of operation at various stages of the agricultural value chain system- from pre-production stage of quality 4 National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) is an apex financing agency for the institutions providing investment and production credit for promoting the various developmental activities in rural areas. It is under the jurisdic- tion of Ministry of Finance , Government of India. The bank has been entrusted with matters concerning policy, planning, and operations in the field of credit for agriculture and other economic activities in rural areas in India. 401 Investment, Policy and Entrepreneurial Ecosystem input purchase to collectivization of outputs, value addition, storage and transportation, marketing. In the process, the FPOs earn from a range of activities and services.