 The key reason is the predominance of diseases like powdery and downy mildew and the virus CMV that is still not available in all the hybrids. Protected cultivation is now increasing in the country and is now impacting yields. Companies like Rik Zwan, Enza Zaden Fig. 7. Cucumber area and yield of India 1990-2018 (Source: FAO and few product segments) Fig. 6. Watermelon and Melon yields and acreage 1991-2019 (Source: FAO Stats and their key product segments) March–April 2023 11 are specifically catering to this segment. This is improving both yield and quality. In the open field East West Seeds, Rik Zwan, BASF, Chia Tai, H M Clause, Taki and Sakata are the main market leaders. Namdhari and VNR are also having market share among Indian companies. Key traits used in the commercial hybrids is incorporation of the gynoecious genetics especially in the protected cultivation segment. Besides helping in producing seedless cucumbers through parthenocarpy the eating quality of the products has improved significantly. Gherkins (Fig 8) are mainly exported and the value of exports in 2021-22 was $114m. BASF and Rik Zwan are the leading breeders of this segment. These are preserved in brine solution and exported. All are bred outside of India. Gherkin cultivation has generated a lot of rural employment in Karnataka where it is mostly grown. conversion to use of the cms system (Ogura cms-radish) in developing female parents has immensely improved seed production and quality of seeds. In brief tropical cauliflower research can be summed up as below: yy Excellent curd quality- firm, white, big sizes and 95% plus productive curds harvested yy An extended sowing window in range of 45-60 days maturity after transplanting yy Move genetics from SI to cms based in almost all hybrids from Pvt Sector yy Molecular markers for several traits have been developed including Rf and BLB yy Implementation of many new marker assisted selection techniques and also used in seed purity check (commercial F1’s) with SNP’s before supply to market yy Development of several villages for high quality seed production and rural employment yy Speed breeding by doing two seed seasons a year. yy Full range of hybrids in all segments tropical, sub- tropical and temperate are in the market. This has made year-round availability of both crops for consumers. yy Anti-pinking (of curds) trait to make sure curd remains white and not turn pink in stress. For Tropical cabbage, temperate cauliflowers and cabbages seeds are still imported from far east companies based in Taiwan, Japan, China to meet our country’s needs. Syngenta and AcSenHyveg are the only two companies having local cabbage research programs as per the knowledge of the author. The impact these improvements in these two crops on acreage and yields from 2011 can be seen from Fig 9. Recently Syngenta has also released the purple- and orange-coloured hybrids that have high nutritional quality.