 Scientific equipment costing more than %10 million may be treated as costly ones and while procuring costly scientific equipment, the ICAR Institutes should ensute: a) Effective terms of service and maintenance after sale b) Service contracts (like AMC) for regular preventive maintenance and repair needs to be availed. It is advised that AMC need to be availed preferably for a period of three years for new equipment in addition to the regular warranty provided by the firm. c) Any other terms of service which will result in smooth installation, operation and maintenance of the equipment need to be drafted and mutually agreed between the Institute and the equipment supplier. 4, Director/Competent Authority may constitute a committee which shall be called as “Scientific Equipment Audit and Management” (SEAM) Committee at the Institute level to monitor scientific equipment/ facility. The composition of the committee shall be: 1] yp EQUIPMENT POLICY HIPS ICAR a) Head of a Division/Project Coordinator Chairman b) Head of Finance Member c) Headof Administration Member d) Principal Scientist/ Senior Scientist Member Secretary Terms of reference for the SEAM Committee shall be: ¢ ‘To conduct scientific equipment review on an annual basis and to submit its report to the Director/Competent Authority. * To monitor proper usage of the scientific equipment in the Institute and to ascertain on regular basis that all the scientific equipment and facilities are in good working order. ¢ This will inter alia include: a. ensuring calibration of all such scientific equipment facility once in a year or at frequencies prescribed by the manufacturer, b. technical auditing of costly scientific equipment facility and to ensure maintenance of log book for all such equipment and facility, c. analyzing the records such as breakdown register, preventive maintenance register and other relevant records, Fish Testing Referral Laboratory (ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kochi) @) cnt |B HID 3 ICAR d. fixing operational cost/charges for users within the institute from other ICAR Institutes and those from other National Institutes, e. developing policies and procedures on all disposable dangerous components to ensure safety and use of proceeds in line with government directives and international safe disposal protocols. It should also assess environmental and health risks of the disposals, and f. any other activity that ensures effective and efficient use of the scientific equipment facility. National Referral Laboratory (ICAR-National Research Centre on Grapes, Pune) The life cycle of costly scientific equipment should be decided by SEAM Committee at the institute level based on the frequency and hours of use and obsoleteness of the working principle.