 After qualifying in NET, eligibility certificates is issued to the candidates by ASRB to enable them to apply against vacancies to be notified or advertised by the state agricultural universities/other agricultural universities. After thorough deliberation keeping in view the larger interest of student community, it has been decided with the approval of the competent authority to remove the restrictions on number of attempts in ICAR-NET to draw parity with the UGC- NET Examination. 4. Rationalization of institutional transfer: Guidelines issued for Inter-Institutional transfer for all category of scientist was revisited and reviewed to streamline the transfer guidelines. To streamline the process for transfer, it has been decided that the meeting of the Transfer Committee at ICAR (Hq) to examine the proposals for transfer of scientists will be held once in March every year and specific guidelines were formulated which indicate the period of receiving applications and that transfer to be effected based on availability of vacancy in the discipline of the applicant at the institute in which transfer is sought for; and the guidelines were communicated to all institutes for compliance. 5. Rationalization eligibility criteria for different position for scientists: A committee was constituted on the recommendation of the Governing Body and with the approval of competent authority to deliberate on the essential qualification of all RMPs and Non- RMPs viz. HoD, I/c of Regional Stations at ICAR, and recommend the list of relevant Doctoral Degree including the relevant basic sciences for each position considering the nature, duties and responsibilities of the position and the overall mandate of the concerned institute. The recommendations of the committee are being implemented in phase manner with the approval of the competent authority of the Council. 6. Rationalization of score card system: A committee, constituted on the recommendation of the Governing Body, deliberated on issues relating to revamping of score card and issues concerning selection to senior scientific positions in ICAR by the ASRB. Further, the terms of reference of the committee include recommendation on the desirability of incentivizing the scientist to appear for direct recruitment to position of Senior Scientist and Principal Scientist instead of awaiting to be promoted to such positions under CAS. The committee commenced the deliberation on the issues in which the procedure being followed in other similar scientific organizations are also being looked into and recommendations are underway. 7. Expediting recruitment of scientists: It has been decided with recommendation of the Governing Body and approval of the competent authority to identify the vacancies discipline/institute-wise in consultation with all SMDs to be filled by recruitment through the ARS Examination in each year commencing from ARS Examination 2016. 7.1.