 Different steps of incubation process. Indian Farming January 2020 16 Taking into consideration the broad spectrum of Innovation, Incubation, Start-ups, Stand-ups, Make in India, etc. major thrust is being given on how to make our country “Greener” and “Cleaner”. The ABI centre focuses on mentoring (incubation) entrepreneurs to bring the dream of “Waste to Wealth” into realization with twin goals of “Doubling farmer’s income” and “Propelling a Cleaner and Greener India. The pictorial representation of various steps of incubation process are depicted in the figure above. Agribusiness Incubation consists of recognizing potential incubatees, provide them with infrastructure facilities, technological consultancy, fund facilitation and product development for commercialization. The innovative technology in contemporary world needs to be protected to evade the exploitation of innovations developed through application of intellect and consistent research efforts. Thus, appropriate registration of Intellectual Property enables protection of R&D efforts. ICAR-CIRCOT has a strong industry interface, has developed and commercialized high impact and innovative technologies pertinent to growth of the industry, provides high end testing facilities to industrial clients as well as promotes entrepreneurship among start-ups. Having an established reputation Pilot plant facilities and testing facilities available at ICAR-CIRCOT, Mumbai. Table 1. Detailed list of incubatees along with their technologies and product S.No. Incubatee Name and Technology Product 1. Degossypolized cottonseed cake for fish, poultry and pigs M/s Sana Agro Industries Limited, Raichur, Karnataka 2. Antimicrobial cotton bedsheets for hospitals M/s Green Globe Mumbai, New Delhi 3. Nanocellulose application in textile yarn spinning for making towels M/s The Kadri Mills Limited, Coimbatore 4. Cotton reinforced rubber baton for protection forces M/s Life Long Combines, Aluva, Kerala 5. Gin cotton lint opener M/s Precision Tooling Engineers, Nagpur 6. Cotton blended T-shirt (Menswear & Womenswear) M/s Greyy, Navi Mumbai 7. Development of thermal and bath blankets using cotton and biodegradable polyester M/s Bloom Textile, Sivakasi, Tamil Nadu Indian Farming January 2020 17 8. Preparation of value added products using banana fibre M/s FNV Pack, Pune. Tech- nology to produce eco-friendly and biode- gradable dishware from a blend of banana fibres extracted from the pseudostem and sugarcane bagasse. 9. Preparation of value added products using naturally coloured cotton M/s Kotak Commodities, Mumbai. These eco-friendly cottons are unique as they grow in colours and do not need to be dyed. Naturally coloured cotton has inherently softer feel, high UV protection factor, good colour stability and fastness properties. 10. Production of biodegradable kitchen utilities directly from the whole banana pseudostem M/s Paras Gold Industries, Gujarat.