 Impact of CAFT on research, teaching and extension activities of SKUAST Table 32. Impact of CAFT programme on research activities Research activities No./ Rs. in lakhs No. of University-sponsored research projects initiated 4 No. of external funded research projects initiated 5 No. of technologies developed/ recommended 2 No. of patents applied 0 No. of patents obtained 0 No. of research papers published in national journals 11 No. of research papers published in international journals 3 No. of papers presented in scientific fora 7 No. of collaboration with national institutes 4 No. of collaboration with international institutes 0 No. of foreign visits made 0 Extent of external funds brought (Rs. in Lakhs) 86 Cost of lab equipment‟s purchased (Rs. in Lakhs) 17.5 Cost of laboratories created (Rs. in Lakhs) 0 No. of consultancies offered 175 Table 32 informs that the CAFT programmes resulted in initiation of four institute- sponsored and five external funded research projects at the organization. The budget of external funded projects brought to this organization as an impact of CAFT is worth about 86 lakhs. In the way, the faculty of this organization had national level collaboration pertaining to research projects. Two technologies were developed based on the capacity built through CAFT training. CAFT programmes had impact on publications/ presentation of research papers (20) in national, international and scientific forums. CAFT programmes also had an impact on establishment of new research facilities/ equipments worth of about Rs. 18 lakhs. With such facilities, the organization could deliver a huge number of consultancies to the stakeholders. The table 33 infers that each 2 new courses were initiated in this organization for undergraduate and postgraduate students apart from new initiatives in teaching collaboration. Eight teaching/ resource materials were prepared for teaching Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 52 utilization, while such training supported guiding of post-graduate level research projects also. Table 33. Impact of CAFT programme on educational activities Teaching activities No. Courses initiated for undergraduate students 2 Courses initiated for postgraduate students 2 Teaching/ resource material/ manuals developed 8 M Sc/ M V Sc students guided on the topic 3 Ph D students guided on the topic 0 Teaching collaboration initiated 2 Table 34. Impact of CAFT programme on extension/ training activities Extension activities No. No. of trainings organized for extension personnel 18 No. of off-campus trainings organized for farmers 24 No. of on-campus trainings organized for farmers 10 No. of diagnostic/ study visits organized 14 No. of off-campus campaigns/ inter-face meetings organized 13 No. of on-campus farmers days/ ghostis organized 27 No.