 However, most of the evidence for the impacts of agriculture on bird population trends comes from the breeding grounds in Europe and North Amer- ica, regions with predominantly mechanized and homog- enized agriculture. We provide novel insights into the compositional and configurational drivers of the richness and abundance of resident and Palearctic migratory species on the wintering grounds, here a mosaic of smallholder agricultural land- scapes and savannas of South Asia. Our results reveal that compositionally more complex agriculture–savanna mosaics host a higher richness of resident species at higher abun- dances, but fewer Palearctic bird species at lower abun- dances compared with more open savannas. Resident species were also more associated with semi-perennial crops such as sugarcane than Palearctic migratory species. The response of Palearctic migratory species to the composition of the agriculture–savanna mosaic was highly guild-specific, that is, related to habitat preference and feeding ecology. Our results suggest that composition plays a more signifi- cant role in the distribution of the Palearctic migratory spe- cies on subcontinent wintering grounds than configuration. Over the last two decades, Palearctic migratory spe- cies in India have declined by over 50% while the populations of resident species have remained largely stable (SoIB, 2023). Land use/land cover change drivers of these disparate trends in bird populations are poorly understood. We show that the resident bird species richness in agriculture–savanna mosaics is especially high during the winter season, where landscapes are compositionally complex, that is, characterized by varying proportions of smallholder cultivation (annual and semi-perennial), woody vegetation, and savannas. This supports our first expectation. As “diversity begets diversity” (Stein et al., 2014), resident species richness might primarily be driven by a high diversity in foraging niches, including invertebrates and small mammals on the open ground, grains from the standing crops, and fruiting trees, which collectively benefit multiple species. We expected higher species richness and abundance in agriculture–savanna mosaics with higher annual crop cover compared with landscapes with a higher semi- perennial crop cover (often sugarcane). Our results back up our expectation regarding the abundance of resident and Palearctic migratory species with an increase in annual crop cover. Typical annual winter (Rabi) crop composition in our study region comprises winter sorghum, maize, ground nut, gram (chickpeas), Arhar (pigeon peas), winter wheat, onion, safflower, millets, sunflower, mustard and sesame (per “District-wise, season-wise crop production statistics from 1997” available from the Open Government Data (OGD) Platform India at https://www.data.gov.in/ catalog/district-wise-season-wise-crop-production-statisti cs-0).