 The major recommendations coming out of these seminars were Zoonotic Diseases Timely detection and safe- guard measures for zoonotic diseases jointly with human medical practitioners is essential to address this critical problem. Proper screening procedures for the EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Compendium Salient Recommendations 6 detection of zoonotic diseases need to be practiced, particularly during festivals. Children should be made aware of zoonotic diseases at school level. Diagnostic labs should be set up in more number of places for early detection and control. There is a need for improved surveillance and control of livestock diseases especially trans-boundary and zoonotic diseases. The link between human, domestic animal and wildlife health and the threat of disease transmission should be documented. Biotechnological Tools in Vaccine Production and Disease Control Research on stem cells and nano technology in vaccine production and drug delivery should be given priority. Clinical trials need to be strengthened in translation of research findings in the field of stem cells and biomaterials as it provides a promising strategy for engineering tissues and cellular delivery. Biomarkers need to be identified that will provide opportunity for the innovative drug discovery and diagnostics. Research in the area of nutrient gene interaction with multi- institutional networking involving nutritionists, geneticist and biotechnologist needs to be taken up as an outreach program. Research focus should be to decipher host-pathogen interaction by elucidating the basic biology of pathogens as well as host with transcriptome analysis, miRNA research etc. to aim to control the disease by identification of newer targets & vaccine strategies. AMR and Alternatives to Antibiotics A mission mode project may be taken-up for integration of Pharmacokinetic- phramcodynamic biomarkers of anti-microbial in the food producing animals to minimize level of drug residue and emergence of drug resistance. Role of nutraceuticals in specific disease condition and its impact has to be studied involving multi-disciplinary team. Use of feed additives like probiobitcs and prebiotics as alternative to antibiotics has to be given top priority. Pet Animal Care Neonatal care of puppies, andrology and artificial insemination requires more emphasis in undergraduate syllabus and periodical awareness programs should be held for the benefit of practitioners and pet owners. Nutritional needs of pet animals (dogs and cats) should be periodically updated and brought out in the form of publication. Clinical nutrition is very important in management of diseases of pets and interaction between Clinical Departments and Animal Nutrition should be encouraged in all veterinary colleges. Non chemical acaricidals like herbal remedies to manage canine demodecosis should be explored to control chemical toxicity and environmental residual effect.