 yy It provides ample opportunity for fruitful utilization of time. yy Harvesting of fresh produce for daily consumption provides immense satisfaction which cannot be measured in financial terms. Conclusion From the above enumeration, it can be concluded that use of kitchen/organic wastes at rooftop is a cheap source of nutrition and provides pesticide free food for the family. Regular exercise near rooftop garden also provides happiness and sound health to practitioners. Use of kitchen/organic wastes at rooftop gardening can reduce municipal solid wastes by 50 to 60%. This practice reduces stress on urban infrastructure services and reduces lot of expenditure in municipal solid waste management system. For further interaction, please write to: R A Ram (Former Principal Scientist & Head), Division of Crop Production, ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 101. *Corresponding author email: raram_cish@yahoo.co.in Indian Horticulture 94 Mushroom and spawn production: An ideal component for start-ups for unemployed youth Mushrooms have excellent source of good quality vegetable protein and can produce highest protein in per unit area within short period of time. Mushroom production is considered a highly profitable and environmentally sustainable venture which helps in recycling and management of abundant agricultural wastes which is otherwise burnt in the field by few farmers. Mushrooms have excellent business opportunities which can be opted by any farmers/aspirants/agri-professionals as a start-up with a low investment and minimum space by utilizing vertical spaces. Even after production of the mushroom, spent compost of mushroom can be utilized for making of soilless media for growing of vegetables in polyhouses as well as bioconversion in vermicomposting or may be utilized for growing of organic rich vegetables. Mushroom production technology is highly ideal for women residing in the urban and peri-urban areas for generation of cottage employment which can be helpful in improving their livelihood and nutritional security. Technology Sudarshan Maurya*, Shubhadeep Roy, Neeraj Singh, D P Singh and T K Behera M ushroom production technology is getting popularity day by day in the urban and peri- urban area due to increasing demand, superior taste with immuno-boosting properties as well as generation of wealth from the waste and multi-step opportunities for becoming entrepreneurs or setup of new start-ups. Mushroom production technology is highly women friendly due to minimum requirement of the labourers and have ability to produce highest protein in per unit area. It is highly rewarding and fascinating in-house activity for the retired persons, unemployed youth as well as housewives who can grow mushrooms in boxes/bags or any poly-containers in the rooms while attending to several household responsibilities.