99% of comparative performance of technological options for management of gundhi bug pest (ITK, chemical measures, spray of neem extract) was administrated to 20 key informants individually as well as in groups. For every criterion, the technology options were ranked with scoring of 0 to 10. The mean value for farmers’ preference for different technological options were collected. Literature support No useful informations was available on the usage of the suggested ITK, “Gundhi bug insect pest management in rice with extracts of garlic and tobacco leaves mixed with washing powder in water.” However, the usage of tobacco and its important chemical constituents as insecticides is well documented. The information on the use of garlic as insecticides is scanty. The mixing of washing powder or detergent with pesticidal active component is used as dispersing, wetting or emulsifying agent. Tobacco Nicotine has had a long history of use in IPM programme for fuit trees in the form of crude extracts of tobacco. Systematic use of nicotine sulphate started around 1910 with the introduction of standardized pesticide formulation containing 40% actual nicotine. Before Second World War, nicotine sulphate was a very popular insecticide around the globe. It is effective against a wide range of pests. Its efficacy against soft- bodied insects like aphids is well known, but it has also been found effective against whitefly, thrips and bollworm in cotton; brown planthopper and green leafhopper in rice; grubs in brinjal, potato and cauliflower etc. It was also used for the control of pear psylla and certain other tree fruit pests (Hamillton, 1947). Recently, nicotine sulphate (0.2 and 0.4% a.i.) was found to be highly toxic to eggs and neonate larvae of Helicoverpa armigera (Hubner) and Spodoptera litura (Fabricius). It was also found effective against Bemisia tabaci (Gennadius) under field conditions.Nicotine sulphate is widely used as a  PEST AND DISEASE MANGEMENT garlic juice repelled mosquitoes for multiple weeks in field tests conducted at assorted geographical locations. In aggregate, the results indicate that garlic juice (with the trade name of Mosquito Barrier “, a product of North American Organic Products Company) was found effective in repelling adult mosquitoes from their resting areas. Experiment On-farm trials were laid out with participation of farmers for validation of the ITK. RBD experiment with nine treatments and three replications was used. The treatments were: T1, Control T2, Water extract of garlic (1 kg) per acre T3, Water extract of tobacco leaves (200g) per acre T4, ITK i.e. Extract of garlic (1 kg) + tobacco (200 g) + washing powder (200 gm) mixed in 200 litres of water per acre T5, Neem seed kernal extract (5 kg) per acre T6, Neem oil E-C (1 litre per acre) T7, Alcoholic extract of Neem Leaves (1,500 ppm) T8, Malathion dust ( 10ñ12 acre) T9, Nicotine sulphate (0.6ñ1.