 Poultry owners of district Malappuram and Kannur in Kerala are following this practice Keywords: mud, moulting, cool place This practice involves restraining of the birds by legs. Then quill of the feather is passed through the nostril and the bird is observed for a few weeks. Here care is taken so that the birds do not wound itself or others with the quill. Despite its complexity, the practice hastens the moulting process and shortens the production gap. About 45-50% farmers of district Chikmangalore in Karnataka and district Alapuzha in Kerala are following this practice. Keywords: quill, feather, nostril, moulting Dr G. R. K Sharma, Assistant Professor, Department of Veterinary Extension, College of Veterinary Science, ANGR Agricultural University, Tirupati (Andhra Pradesh) 517 502 Dr G. R. K Sharma. Assistant Professor, Department of Veterinary Extension, College of Veterinary Science, ANGR Agricultural University, Tirupati (Andhra Pradesh) 517 502 Dr G. R. K Sharma, Assistant Professor, Department of Veterinary Extension, College of Veterinary Science, ANGR Agricultural University, Tirupati (Andhra Pradesh) 517 502 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3468 Use of ash and mustard oil paste for treating fowl pox 3469 Use of Raja Mircha seed for cure of fowl pox Raja mircha 3470 Protection of poultry birds from ranikhet disease 3471 Plucking of wing feathers for better growth rate in chicken Scabs of fowl pox are cleaned and a paste made from mustard oil and ash is applied. It is reported that the treatment is effective in curing fowl pox. Keywords: fowl pox, ash mustard oil Raja Mircha (local name) is a variety of chilli, which was once considered the hottest chilli in the world. This is found in abundance in this region of the country and is liked by most of the tribal people. The seed is used for treating fowl pox in chicken by placing one seed each in both the eyes of the affected birds. Severe lackrymation follows after its application, but the birds get cured after a few days. Keywords: Raja Mircha, fowl pox, lackrymation, chilli Ranikhet is a fatal disease of poultry birds. It is a viral disease. Farmers of district Jagatsinghpur in Orissa use an indigenous preparation for its prevention. In this, equal proportion (20 g) of apamaranga (Achyranthes aspera) root, red raw chilli {Capsicum annuum) and garlic (Allium sativum) are ground together to make a fine paste. The prepared paste is given orally to each bird (nearly 1 g). This prevents occurrences of ranikhet disease in poultry birds. Keywords: apamaranga, chilli, garlic, ranikhet disease To have better growth rate and fattening of chicken, a few (4-5) wing feathers are plucked. It is reported that growth rate is increased with this treatment.