 The farmers have successfully transformed their traditional Agro-biodiversity, Ecology and Agriculture: Gandhian Thoughts 82 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR and climate risky agriculture to Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA). Further, the rejuvenation of haveli system has changed thought process of the watershed dwellers about dealing with hazards of climate change. 3.5. Integrated Farming Systems Gandhian principle advocates for ‘natural insurance’ by way of farmers choosing their crop without market-based inputs influence. Mixed cropping and farming mechanism encouraged under integrated farming systems provides the natural insurance to the farmers against nature’s vagaries. Gandhian economics places importance to means of achieving the aim of development with non-violent, ethical and truthful in all economic spheres, which is also a basic concept of integrated farming systems having maximum complementarity without any competition. Mahatma Gandhiji advocated trusteeship, decentralization of economic activities, labour- intensive technology, and priority to weaker sections. Integrated farming systems developed with judicious mix of two or more enterprises emphasises for achieving household level food, nutrition, round the year income, self-employment, and sustainability especially for marginal and small farmers. The details of the IFS have been discussed elsewhere in this publication. 3.6. Sand-dune Stabilization The field techniques adopted by ICAR-CAZRI for sand dune stabilization follows systematic processes; (i) fencing of the shifting dune areas for their protection against biotic interferences, (ii) fixing barriers in parallel strips or in checker-board pattern with locally available brushwood or grass materials to act as micro-wind breaks. Geometry of species depend upon whether wind directions, (iii) afforestation by direct sowing of grass seeds and transplanting seeding of indigenous and exotic species, (iv) planting of grass slips or seeds of grasses or leguminous creepers on the leeward side of the micro-wind breaks and (v) continuous and proper management of such dune till the cost of input is recovered in about 10-15 years duration. ICAR-CAZRI identified various plant species in different rainfall zones. Haveli renovation in Parasai-Sindh watershed; Masonry drop spillway (rectangular weir) and embankment along with corewall was constructed in 50 m breached area. Water harvested in Haveli during the monsoon period. Source: ICAR-Central Agroforestry Research Institute, Jhansi 83 3.7. Shelterbelt Plantation Shelterbelt plantations are vegetative barriers of tree/shrub/bushes. This technique is suitable for sandy plain areas. Trees were planted according to geometry of sheleter-belts at several sites for nearly 800 km on roadsides, on the state highways, along the railway tracks and also in tube well irrigated area of Lathi in Jaisalmer district and in IGNP area of Mohangarh.