 A DNA hypomethylating agent, 5-Azacytidine, was found to be effective in modulating hypomethylations to stabilize heat stress-induced oxidative damage in flax fibre. Development and characterization of EST-SSR markers in winged bean: Winged bean (Psophocarpus tetragonolobus) is a high-protein, high-oil orphan tropical legume. A set of genic-SSR markers for winged bean was developed from the publicly available RNAseq data sets. Fifty-eight thousand eight hundred eleven unigenes were assembled, and 4,107 perfect SSRs were identified. Primers were synthesized for randomly selected 166 SSRs (di-nucleotide and above) of which 78 amplified single band, and from among them 22 were polymorphic in a set of 79 germplasm accessions of winged bean from India, Thailand, Nigeria, Indonesia, Taiwan, the Philippines, and Papua New Guinea. These accessions wee grouped into eight hypothetical populations based on their geographic location. Sixty alleles were detected at the 22 polymorphic SSR loci, with a mean value of 2.73 per locus. The PIC values for the SSR loci ranged from 0.11 to 0.64 (mean 0.36). The analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) indicated that within-population variation was significantly higher (85%) than between-population variation (15%). The pairwise Nm values between the populations ranged from 0.69–3.41, indicating the varying level of gene flow between them. The analysis of the population structure revealed two distinct groups among the eight populations with different levels of introgression. The groupings were further confirmed by allelic richness test between and among groups, fuzzy clustering and discriminate analysis. The NJ based clustering grouped the 79 germplasm accessions of the winged bean into four main clusters with significant clustering of geographically proximal accessions. The genic- SSR markers discovered in the study would speed up breeding for modern varieties and help develop effective conservation strategies for the species. CIRCOS diagram showing mapped cytosine DNA methylation loci in terms of CpG, CHG, and CHH contexts in flax chromosomes. The bar diagram representing distribution of hyper and hypomethylated differentially methylated genomic loci under different treatment combinations. JC: flax-control; JH: flax-heat; JAC: flax-AzaC-control; and JAH: flax-AzaC-heat. NJ tree showing the genetic relationships among the 79 germplasm accessions of winged bean grouped into eight hypothetical geographic populations. Molecular Breeding for the Development of Rice Varieties with Inbuilt Resistance/Tolerance to Drought, Low Soil P, and Blast Seven hundred fifty plants selected based on per se performance from F2 populations of rice segregating for qDTY 2.2, qDTY 4.1 and Pup1 were raised during kharif 2022 under direct seeded rainfed conditions for evaluation. Based on genotyping of 326 selected plants with the help of linked markers, plants possessing different combinations of QTLs were identified.