 ANGRAU, Hyderabad; CCS HAU, Hisar; TNAU, Coimbatore; and TNVASU, Chennai, with their 32 out of 35 colleges were accredited. The revision of PG syllabi was completed in 13 broad subject matter areas, covering 43 Master’s degree programme. The Quinquennial Review Team suggested new areas for Centres of Advanced Studies which included Environmental pollution and pesticides residues; Post-harvest technology and product development for agriculture, horticulture, animal, and fisheries products, medicinal and aromatic plants; Feed technology for cattle, poultry, and fish; Wildlife management; Fish pathology; Fish microbiology; International agriculture, trade and marketing etc. Under Professional excellence recognition, major research achievements include suitability of leaf lamina for analysis of N, Ca, S, Fe, Cu and Zn in Perlette grape; design of a robust and rapid PCR-based molecular marker for identification of CMS line; hatching of World’s first culture guinea fowl chick by ex-vivo Double Window Embryo Culture System; success in propagation by patch budding for commercial production of quality pods and true-to-type planting material raised from elite trees; and emergence of women as the joint decision-makers in all spheres of activities. Under Social Sciences and Policies research carried out in area of Agricultural Economics and Agricultural Statistics were discussed. Allocation of livestock research resources across regions and species was assessed. There is a considerable scope to raise rice and wheat yield in Indo-Gangetic plains. Appropriate tariffs have to be imposed to regulate unwanted agriculture imports. Shift is expected in livestock product consumption because of improvement in the rural condition. Tank infrastructure has to be rehabilitated in Andhra Pradesh, as its further deterioration will have equity and sustainable implications. Livestock sector is important for the upliftment of rural economy and should get half of the research resources. As estimation of vegetable production status poses several problems, a methodology was developed for estimation of area and production of vegetable at district level. A technique was developed to estimate intake of animal through grazing that will help dairy planners and others related to animal husbandry. Imported fertilizer should be checked as per the order placed and a sampling design was proposed for drawl of fertilizers samples from ship hatches. A fatigue score card was developed for camels, so that camel keeper can make optimum use of the animal without giving it an unnecessary stress. At the AICRP on Energy Requirement in Agriculture, a linear programming approach was developed for estimation/ projection of energy requirement in agriculture. At the IASRI, New Delhi, consultancy and advisory services are available for sophisticated statistical techniques.A model was developed for forecasting the powdery mildew onset in mango.