 This aromatic grass has specific floral arrangement hence derived the name ‘Cymbopogon’. Lemon grass cultivation: Low cost, high profit The cultivation of lemon grass is proving to be beneficial for the farmers who are making profit of up to one lakh per year in one acre, compared to meagre one- time initial investment of `20,000. One of the important economic traits of Lemon grass is that once it is planted, the crop can be easily harvested for about five years. Its multi-cutting does not involve any cost except for additional irrigation. The composted cow dung is used as fertilizer and applied five times to the field. While applying manure, care should be taken that manure should be applied only near the roots of the plant. While preparing the field, 2 to 3 tonnes/ha of cow dung and additionally 1.5 tonnes/ha should be applied on each cutting. The field should be well ploughed and after ploughing cow dung should be spread well in the leveled field. While sowing in the field, 5 to 8 cm deep hoeing should be done with a small spade and transplanting should be done at the ridges. While transplanting, the distance between plant-to-plant and row-to-row of 7 to 30 or 7 to 45 cm should be kept. Regular watering is essential for optimal growth, approximately at 15 days interval. Water should not stagnate near the plant. This practice ensures a high yield. The production potential of Lemon grass ranges from 40 to 50 quintals per acre. Its market price ranges from `3-4/kg. Lemon grass husks can be harvested four to five times in a year. The price of lemon grass oil ranges from `1500-2000 per litre. Lemon grass: A boon for farmers (benefits) • Diversification of existing agriculture with Lemon grass cultivation requires only a little irrigation. Also it can grow easily with minimum input and care. With scant irrigation facilities, farmers can even harvest Lemon grass four-five times a year and earn up to `50,000 per acre per annum. The earnings from the conventional paddy or wheat crops is `10,000-15,000 per acre per annum which justify profitability of Lemon grass cultivation. • The rising health consciousness among the urban people has led to a booming alternative market of natural herbs based products, as majority of consumers seek health in natural products. Natural products are known for their health and medicinal properties with little or no side effects. The Lemon grass having a wide array of bioactive compound and broad spectrum of secondary metabolites with health restorative capacity leading to high market demand and its cultivation at large scale. The use of lemon grass in Ayurveda is still relevant today due to its therapeutic value. • Lemon grass contains 1-2% of essential oil on a dry weight basis. Lemon grass oil is also known as citronella oil. Essential oils extracted from the Lemon grass are used in manufacturing of perfumes, soaps, cosmetics and detergent, fetching lucrative market price, making lemon grass cultivation more profitable.