 Farmer Friendly Poultry 96  INTRODUCTION Indian agriculture has the predominance of small and marginal farmers. The future of sustainable agriculture growth and food security in India shall be factorized to the performance of small and marginal farmers. Access to timely, adequate, correct technology and related information is among the most important enablers for smallholders to improve productivity sustainably. A number of technologies developed in agriculture and allied sectors do not readily reach the famers due to low extension worker and farmer ratio and poor delivery mechanism. The diverse agro-ecological, socio-economic and cultural conditions of the Indian farmers calls for different extension approaches as a single system may not be effective in responding to the demands and technological challenges of various types of clients and to reach the rural poor (Rivera et al.,2001; Davis 2008; Birner et al., 2009). Innovative mechanisms for technology dissemination are required to bring relevant tools, knowledge and knowhow to farmers. The policy framework for agricultural extension by the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare, Government of India, also highlights to harness the opportunity for information and communication technology (ICT) to improve the quality and accelerate the transfer and exchange of information to farmers, and ICT is consequently given a high priority, particularly as a tool for providing technologies and improving the marketing aspects of farm enterprises. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO, 1993), ICT is defined as those technologies used in collecting, processing, storing, retrieving, disseminating, and implementing data and information using microelectronics, optics, and telecommunication and computers. In the era of ICT, mobile technology can, therefore, foster dissemination of required information on technology, market demand and price information; weather, pest, and risk-management information, best practices to meet quality and certification standards. Krishi Gyan – Mobile App 1 Krishi Gyan – Mobile Apps Krishi Gyan – Mobile Apps 2 Krishi Gyan – Mobile Apps The mobile phone technology, which is comparatively new form of ICT, provides the electronic capabilities, reaches to customer, provides privacy, anytime and anywhere, contact-less services and most preferred user carry personal item (Nierinck, 2008). World Bank, in one of its studies on mobile telephony highlighted most sought benefits of mobile phone technologies over its counterparts, those are i) are owned by more people, ii) provide delivery in an instant, more convenient way, iii) can deliver personalized information to individual ownership, iv) are cheaper to deploy, and v) provide other functions such as voice communication (World Bank, 2012).