 Studies also focused on the role of TRLs in innate immunity in divergent fish species to utilize in disease prevention. The development of several diagnostic kits has helped in the early detection of causative pathogens and early warnings for combating the disease outbreaks. WSSV has been thoroughly characterized and PCR-based tests have been developed for the diagnosis of the disease. PCR-based diagnostic kits have also been developed for several other viruses viz., yellow head virus (YHV), KHV, TiLV, and taura syndrome virus. Reverse transcriptase- Loop mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) for the detection of beta noda virus (VNN) was developed, besides molecular diagnostics for several OIE-listed pathogens. A colony multiplex PCR (cmPCR) was developed for rapid detection of Bacillus and Pseudomonas genera from diverse ecological niches. Rapid DNA-based diagnostic assays utilizing PCR have also been developed for Gyrodactylus salaris, G. elegans, Dactylogyrus intermedius, Myxobolus cerebralis and M. clarii. The latest in the list includes a nested PCR kit for rapid detection of Enterocytozoon hepatopenaei (EHP) in shrimp. Besides molecular techniques, microbiological, microscopic and immunological techniques have also been used for the diagnosis of pathogens. A National Surveillance Programme for Aquatic Animal Diseases (NSPAAD), financially supported by the Department of Fisheries (DoF), Govt. of India is operational in 21 states and three union territories. The programme is implemented through 31 collaborating centers and is coordinated by ICAR-NBFGR. The major emphasis of NSPAAD has been to strengthen the passive surveillance system and undertake need-based active surveillance. Under the programme, eight new diseases have been reported for the first time in the country, including goldfish haematopoietic necrosis disease, koi sleepy disease, tilapia lake virus disease, and infection with red sea bream iridovirus. Referral Laboratories for Level-III diagnosis have been established to support an ‘Emergency response system’ in the aquaculture sector. The programme has been helping to provide scientific advice to farmers. In addition, the programme enables the DoF to report newly emerging diseases quickly and also provide alerts and advisories to the stakeholders. Recognizing the threat of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) to health and livelihoods, ICAR initiated a Network Indian Agriculture after Independence 198 Project for AMR surveillance covering the aspects of livestock and fisheries in the country in 2018 with the technical cooperation of FAO, named Indian Network for Fisheries and Animal Antimicrobial Resistance (INFAAR). The programme is generating baseline data on AMR in the fisheries sector across the country through eight fisheries research institutes of ICAR.