, cytochrome-b (Cyt-b) was analyzed in indigenous buffaloes using PCR based approach. Conserved primers for Cyt-b region were used to amplify corresponding region in buffalo mitochondrial DNA. A panel comprising Murrah, Jaffarabadi, Toda and Mehsana breeds of buffaloes was taken to check for the PCR-amplification of Cyt-b region. Successful amplification was achieved in all the four breeds having similar MW of 380bp. This was further confirmed by amplification of Cyt-b region in cattle, sheep, goats and camels. The PCR products were RE digested and analyzed on agarose and polyacrylamide gels to detect polymorphism. Both MspI and Sau3AI patterns revealed similar Cyt-b haplotypes. Digoxigenin (DIG) based system was used for labeling of microsatellite oligo probes and detection of DNA fingerprint pattern in buffaloes. Genomic DNA from Murrah and Mehsana buffaloes was digested with either Hinf I and HaeIII restriction enzyme and fractionated on 0.7% agarose gels. Southern blotting was carried out by capillary transfer. Oligo microsatellites, viz., (GTG)5 and (GGAT)4 were used to evaluate the best possible enzyme-probe combination for generating informative DNA fingerprint pattern. Evaluation of DNA fingerprints indicated more number of scorable DNA bands with (GTG)5 than (GGAT)4 probe. The HinfI-(GTG)5 probe- enzyme combination was more suitable than HaeIII-(GTG)5 combination in generating informative DNA fingerprint pattern in indigenous buffaloes. At the IVRI, Izatnagar, the PCR-RFLP analysis of DRB 3.2 gene of major histocompatibility complex of Murrah buffalo with PstI and HaeIII, revealed the presence of 284-bp fragment with different restriction patterns demonstrating the polymorphic nature of the gene. Heritability estimate of growth traits in Muzaffarnagri sheep: At the CIRG, Makhdoom, heritability estimates of body weight of sheep at birth, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months were 0.20 ± 0.07, 0.23 ± 0.07, 0.14 ± 0.06, 0.20 ± 0.07 and 0.34 ± 0.08 respectively. The genetic progress of body weights at birth and 9 months of age were 0.146 ± 0.04 and 1.11 ± 0.50 respectively. The overall replacement rate was 31.13%. RFLP analysis of κ-casein fragment: The B-variant of κ-casein was favourable for milk quality, as it is associated with highest protein percentage. The genotyping of animals at κ-casein locus may be one of the criteria for selection of dairy animals. Using the primers, K1 and K2 reported for buffalo, amplification of κ-casein fragment was successfully done in cattle, buffalo and sheep. Fragment size observed in cattle, GAROLE SHEEP Molecular genetic characterization of Garole sheep was achieved using 48 unrelated genomic DNA samples and 25 microsatellite markers. Number of alleles at 25 microsatellite loci and genotype of each animal was recorded from air-dried gels. The data thus generated were used to calculate allele frequency; expected, observed heterozygosities and polymorphism information content (PIC) values.