 Out of which, 173 candidates (114 Master’s and 59 Ph.D) have successfully completed their programmes. A gender wise break up reflects the participation of 162 males AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 105 and 33 female candidates under India Africa Fellowship Scheme. India-Afghanistan Fellowship Programme India-Afghanistan Fellowship Programme has been implemented in 2010-11 for providing fellowships to Afghan nationals for attaining higher education in Agriculture and allied sciences in identified Indian Agricultural Universities (AUs). A total of 211 candidates (71 Bachelor’s; 140 Master’s) have joined higher degree programmes in 38 Indian AUs. Out of which, 36 candidates (3 Bachelor’s; 33 Master’s) have completed their programme successfully. During 2016- 17, a total of 133 Afghan candidates (23 Bachelor’s; 110 Master’s) have been recommended for admission in Indian AUs. Twenty nine candidates (5 Bachelor’s; Master’s 24) have joined the session 2016-17. To attain maximum enrolments of Afghan candidate, the tenure of programme is extended up to 2020-2021. Fifth Deans’ Committee Report The V Deans’ Committee, constituted for revision of curricula for undergraduate programmes of agricultural education, has submitted its report to the Council, which has been approved for its implementation in the agricultural universities. The report has been prepared by considering various aspects like defining UG degrees to cater the needs of general market and for specialist jobs and uniformity in UG and PG degree nomenclature, restructuring of UG programmes for increased practical and practice contents, central assistance for strengthening of Higher Agricultural Education, guidelines for assessing training needs and performance of teaching faculties, reforms in governance of SAUs and preparation of DPRs for establishment of new colleges. The syllabus for the following disciplines has been developed: 1. Agriculture 2. Agricultural Engineering 3. Biotechnology 4. Community Science (Home Science) 5. Food Nutrition and Dietetics 6. Dairy Technology 7. Fisheries 8. Food Technology 9. Forestry 10. Horticulture 11. Sericulture The Committee kept in consideration that India’s agricultural education needs to be stimulated and improved to increasingly enable India’s participation in global markets through export of agricultural commodities and technologies, support to domestic and international agribusiness, and development of new bio- and knowledge-based enterprises, including those for rural and agro-industrial services. Hence, while preparing the report, the V Deans’ Committee adopted a “hub” (ICAR) and “spoke” (AUs) model by undertaking comprehensive consultations and a bottom up approach for curriculum development. Inputs from different stakeholders of agricultural education were obtained at different levels.