 Temperature increase will reduce soil moisture content and increase evapotranspiration demand, thereby increasing the irrigation demand by crops (Kamruzzaman et al., 2020). The water shortage coupled with the preference given to other sectors at times of water scarcity requires agricultural sector to be adaptive. In light of these issues, the main research questions that we were trying to find answers to through this study are (i) How can we assess the sensi­ tivity of an irrigation system to climate related risks? (ii) Which climatic conditions can lead to unacceptable failures of the system? and (iii) How will the acceptable risk levels change with change in thresholds in the future? The present study aims to understand the climatic factors that pose a high risk to the irrigation project, as well as the vulnerability of the system to these factors. The specific objectives of the study are (i) To identify the vulnerability domain of irrigation system and (ii) To test whether the system can deliver the desired level of performance when the climate conditions change in the future. The novel approach pre­ sented in this paper involves an integration of social and natural sci­ ences, whereby stakeholder consultation is used to understand the current problem, identifying performance metrics and thresholds and formulating adaptation options. This will eventually contribute to de­ cision making in the local context developing actions that help to reduce the risks to agriculture by linking adaptation to multiple stressors. 2. Study area and data 2.1. Study area Lower Bhavani basin in Tamil Nadu state of South India was chosen as the case study area to demonstrate the applicability of the risk-based and bottom-up approach to agriculture sector. In this basin, river Bha­ vani, a tributary of River Cauvery, flows and forms the major source of irrigation. Bhavani is the largest tributary of Cauvery, flowing 216 km and draining an area 7144 km2, which is nearly 8 % of the total geographical area of the Cauvery basin. Bhavani is an interstate river originating in the Silent Valley forest of Malabar (Kerala) and after traversing about 29 km in a south easterly direction swing round the hills and flows in a north easterly direction and joins Cauvery from the right at Bhavani in Periyar district in Tamil Nadu. The system layout in Fig. 1 shows the basin being fed by two main tributaries, the Bhavani and the Moyar river, which join to flow as the main Bhavani River, with the confluence point just above the Bhavanisagar dam. The dam consists of a middle masonry portion and an earthen dam of 8.3 km. Nine river sluices with dimensions of 1.83 m × 3.05 m are provided at a sill level of 248.58 m.a.s.l. Five canal sluices with dimensions of 1.83 m × 3.05 m, at a sill level of 256.2 m.a.s.l, release water to the canal on the left bank. Fig. 1. Bhavani river basin and Lower Bhavani Irrigation Project command area. A.G. Kamalamma et al.