 General profile of the diseases associated with water After examining the chemical attributes of various groundwater parameters across Aligarh Municipal Corporation, it was discovered that many parameters in various locations exceed the acceptable limits set by BIS, posing a serious threat to human health through the spread of various waterborne diseases [35,43]. During the field survey, the following diseases caused by poor water quality were reported from the sampled wards which are detailed in Table 6, Figs. 8 and 9. Typhoid: Aligarh city receives maximum precipitation during July to September resulting into waterlogging issues, overflowing of sewerage water into the pedestrian surface and public roads; a potential threat of waterborne diseases creates during this period [66]. The field visit data was obtained during 2019 shows that the central and southern parts of the city were more affected by Typhoid fever. More typhoid patients were found in sanitary circle number 5 during PRM season followed by circle no. 2 then the rest of the circles. Kidney and gallbladder stone: Based on the available data, it was observed that kidney stone is more dominant during PRM season juxtaposed to the POM season. During PRM season; sanitation circles no 5 and 7 showed more affected residents. Like kidney stone, Gallbladder stone is a quite common disease found among the residents of the city. Sanitation circle number 1 and 2 showed more patients with Gallbladder stone during both seasons. Gastrointestinal (GI) diseases: Aligarh city acquire a decadal record of severe gastrointestinal diseases. Based on the data obtained from JNMC hospital, it was observed that there is a continuum of gastro diseases throughout the decade. The year 2011, 2019 showed maximum number of patients. Based on field survey, it was perceived that maximum pa足 tients with GI diseases were the residents of circle no. 1 and 2 respectively. Orthopedic diseases: From the year 2011 to 2016, maximum patients admitted for the diseases associated with orthopedic department were in 2013. However, the OPD data from 2017 to 2020 shows maximum number of orthopedic patients who came for consultation with doctors at OPD were in the year 2019 when the field survey was carried out. Based on the data from field survey, sanitation circle number 1 and 3 were recorded with maximum number of patients affected by the dis足 eases related to their bone. Skin diseases: Based on field survey, it was detected that a lot of re足 spondents of Aligarh city claimed on skin diseases outbreak during the whole year of 2019. The symptoms of the outbreak were observed from all wards of the city. These diseases are not only dominant in 2019 but also from the year 2011 to 2020 (Table 6). The data achieved from field visit showed that sanitation circle no.1 and 8 in PRM season and sani足 tation circle no.1 and 5 in POM season were major hotspots of skin diseases. 3.6.3.