 Gymnothorax andamanensis Channa royi Lutjanus xanthopinnis RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 138 Noni—A climate resilient crop for augmenting the income of farmers Morinda citrifolia, commonly known as Noni, a small tree of varied therapeutic values is native to south-east Asia, Australia and Pacific Islands. Noni shows a wide range of environmental tolerance as it grows from elevations near sea level, up to 800 m amsl, endures temperatures up to 39°C in tropical humid island environment, thrives well in infertile, acidic, alkaline and sandy carbonatic soils of atolls that are poorly suited to agriculture, tolerates brackish tidal pools and flooded conditions for long periods of time; making it an invaluable component in various agroforestry systems aimed at climate change adaptation. It integrates well with a wide range of cropping systems, viz. multi-storey cropping, intercropping, home gardens, alley cropping and mixed forests. In 2006–07, CIARI promoted Noni cultivation across Andaman and Nicobar Islands for a vocation in challenged areas after Tsunami 2004. It was planted in 18 ha as intercrop in arecanut and coconut, all in rolling terrain and sloped hilly lands. Though the economic yield started by the third year after planting, the firm could not find any prospective buyer in the early period but over the years, its sales destinations anticipating a bright future ahead. As a low input- high value crop, Noni is an ideal choice for alternate/ additional source of income from marginal lands. The economic yield starts from the fourth year with 20– 30 kg fruits/tree/annum, selling of which to the nearby processing unit at the rate of ` 20/kg fetches a good income. Tribal Sub Plan (TSP) Tribal welfare programmes were supported in 11 agricultural universities with financial support of ` 29.94 crore. The major activities were promotion of agricultural centric sustainable livelihood security, sericulture, agro- technological intervention, modern goat farming, waste management through vermicomposting, quality planting material production in horticultural crops, agroforestry and non-timber forest product, beekeeping, backyard poultry, sustainable livestock production, small ruminants productivity etc. in different tribal districts of Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh, Odhisha and West Bengal. Two meetings of Tribal Sub Plan were organized on 17th September 2018 and 5th October 2018, at ICAR, New Delhi. Various programmes were executed through more Jalshakti Jalshakti Abhiyan to improve water harvesting capacity was initiated in the Darim Cluster of Nanital district. Farmer field workshop-cum-demonstration on water management was organized. A farmers’–scientists interaction meeting on water management in hills was also held during the occasion. About 300 participants including farmers, members of gram panchyat and school students attended the programme.