 The hypothesis and the choice of independent variables are grounded on, firstly, literature reviews from various empirical studies across the globe (the supporting references column represents literature that supports the hypothesis for each variable in any of the models, i.e., Models 1 and 2). Secondly, consideration was given to new and important variables that have mostly not been considered in food security and UA empirical studies. The dependent variables were participation intensity, scores and per capita food expenditure of a household. 2.4 Empirical analysis 2.4.1 Measurement of food security. Given the importance of the measurement of food security, several tools – which are both subjective and objective – have been developed to assess households food security. These measurement tools, individually, are not able to measure the multidimensional nature of food security (Maxwell et al., 2014). Since no single measurement tool has the incorporation of all the four dimensions of food security, several authors employ either one or combinations to assess either one dimension or two at a given time (Jones et al., 2013; Maxwell et al., 2014). In this study, both the HFIAS [3] and the per capita food expenditure were used to measure the food security status of UA households. The HFIAS is a subjective tool, whereas the per capita food expenditure is an objective tool. However, both tools measure the food accessibility dimension of food security. The former though a subjective tool, has been employed and validated at household, regional, national and intercontinental levels of food security studies by the United Organisations and other domestic and international Non-Governmental Organisations. Howbeit it being a subjective tool; it is not less essential in its usage in measuring food security (Maxwell et al., 2014; Issahaku and Abdulai, 2019). Besides, in the context of urban agriculture, HFIAS is a useful tool since food security is primarily influenced by accessibility (Crush and Frayne, 2011). At the same time, urban household’s food expenditure (within and the without the home) is another important cause of food insecurity (de Zeeuw and Prain, 2011). Extent of urban agriculture and food security 441 Variable Description Measurement Model 1 Model 2 Supporting references Dependent Variables Participation intensity Natural log of the intensity of urban agriculture participation Land allocated to urban agriculture/largest urban agriculture land allocation within a country Scores Food security scores HFIAS scores for each household Food per capita Per capita food expenditure Amount in $US/ household size Independent Variables Age Number of years from birth Number þ - Adesoye and Adepoju (2020)a, Joshi et al.