 ICAR has celebrated “World Intellectual Property Day” on 26 April, 2023, as per World Intellectual Property Organization’s (WIPO) theme for Day in 2023 was “Women and IP: Accelerating Innovation and Creativity”. World IP Day was an opportunity to highlight the importance of IP rights, such as, patents, copyrights, designs, trademarks, and plant varieties for encouraging innovation and creativity among scientific fraternity of the Council. This year, 691 such partnership agreements were developed with 463 public and private organizations and farmers/entrepreneurs. In this process 64 ICAR institutes were involved from different Subject Matter Divisions, and transferred 381 technologies in different disciplines which include; Animal Production Technologies; Crop Production Technologies; Farm Machinery and Tools; Fish Farming and Processes; Food Processing Technologies; Plant Protection Technologies; Seed and Planting Material; Textile Process; and four technologies from allied sectors. Various useful programmes for public utility and farmers were organized by the institutions of the Council in Hindi and Regional Languages. All activities including agriculture extension related to KVKs located in Hindi speaking areas were also performed in Hindi and Regional Languages. Various publications on different subjects like Agricultural Science, Animal and Fishery Science and Horticultural Science were brought out in Hindi and Regional Languages by the Council and its institutes from time to time. With a view to provide Knowledge of various technologies on agriculture and wider publicity thereof, monthly Hindi magazine Kheti was published regularly. Rajbhasha Aalok, in-house Hindi magazine of ICAR Headquarters, was published regularly. This magazine includes articles on scientific subjects and government schemes in simple Hindi, besides reports of various schemes and programmes being organized by the Council and its institutes from time-to-time. Total number of notified subordinate offices of the Council under Rule 10(4) of Official Languages Rules, 1976 has increased up to 149. The following activities by Technical Coordination Unit were conducted during reported period: Preparation of Monthly Cabinet Summary for Cabinet Secretary; Grant of financial assistance to Scientific Societies and Academic Institutions for holding of National/ International Conference/Seminars etc., and publication of Scientific Journals; Organizing Director’s Conference; Coordination of the ICAR Regional Committee Meetings; Coordination and collaboration with Department of Science and Technology, Department of Biotechnology, Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, CSIR, ICMR, Bureau of Indian Standards etc.; To deal with the references received from Prime Minister’s Office, President’s Secretariat, Members of Parliament and VIPs etc.