 The Holy Quran also implies recycling of post-harvest residues mentioning that at least one- Natural Resource Management in Pre-independent India 65 third of what is taken out from soil should be returned to it. The Deccan plateau region developed the ash mound tradition dating back 2800 BC. This is characterized by large mounds of burned cattle dung and other materials for growing millets and pulses. They also herded cattle, sheep and goat and were largely engaged in pastoralism (Fuller 2006). In the east of India, Neolithic people grew rice and pulses as well as kept cattle, sheep and goat. During the early common era systematic ploughing, manuring, weeding, irrigation and crop protection were practiced in south India for sustained agriculture (Pillay 1972). Agricultural ‘zones’ were broadly divided into those producing rice, wheat or millets (Anonymous 2008). During this era, sugar mills were developed and use of a draw bar for sugar-milling appeared at Delhi in 1540. Geared sugar rolling mills later appeared in Mughal India, using the principle of rollers as well as worm gearing by the 17th century (Habib 2011). 4.2. Mughal Era (1526-1757 CE) Agricultural production increased during the period and India’s population growth accelerated. A variety of crops including wheat, rice, barley, cotton, indigo and opium was grown. By the mid-17th century, India started growing maize and tobacco, the new crops from the Americas (Karl 2015). Land management was strong during the regime of Akbar the Great (1556-1605). Scholar-bureaucrat Todarmal implemented elaborated methods for management of agriculture on a rational basis (Kumar 2005). The Mughal administration emphasized agrarian reforms, which began under Sher Shah Suri. Akbar also adopted and furthered with more reforms. The civil administration was organized in a hierarchical manner on the basis of merit, with promotions based on performance. They built irrigation systems across the empire to produce more crop yields and increase the net revenue base, leading to increased agricultural production (Karl 2015). A major reform introduced by Akbar was a new land revenue system called ‘zabt’, which was a monetary tax system based on a uniform currency. With this system, extensive cadastral surveying was conducted to assess the area of land under plough cultivation. The Mughal state encouraged greater land cultivation by offering tax-free periods to those who brought new land under cultivation (Richards 2003). Indian agriculture was more advanced compared to many other parts of the world, such as the common use of the seed drill, which were adopted by the peasants of other countries much later (Habib et al. 1987). When the farmers of the other parts of the world used to grow very few crops, Indian farmers were skilled in growing a wide variety of food and non-food crops.