 Furthermore, initiatives by the government such as providing incentives to farmers and making hustle-free policies can help to overcome I1 and I2. As farmers start adopting UAVs, it is anticipated that I4 will not be a barrier as companies compete to improve the level of service to the customers. Fabricating a multi-purpose drone that can perform various tasks in the pre-harvesting, harvesting, and post- harvesting phases can help overcome I3. Taking the initiative to conduct workshops in association with KVK can create trained personnel who help to overcome B2, O1, B3, and B1. Giving special emphasis to explain the capabilities and advantages of drones to farmers can help to overcome B7, B6, S1, S2, and S5. 7. Conclusions, limitations, and future scope Rising demand for food is a major issue across the world. The mismatch in demand and supply of food, witnessed in several parts of the globe subject nearly 26% of the global population to food insecurity with severity ranging between moderate and extreme. The trans­ formation of conventional agricultural practices through the adoption of advanced technological solutions is a compelling solution to overcome for food insecurity. Unmanned Aerial Vehicles also known as Drones can offer a significant modernisation of agricultural practices in emerging economies by allowing farmers to leverage technology for planting seeds, crop health monitoring, spraying fertilisers, weed detection and so on to increase crop yields. Although they are popular in many developed countries, their adoption in emerging economies can be associated with numerous barriers. This study identified barriers impeding the adoption of drones through an extensive literature review, focus group discussions, and field visits. Using the proposed hybrid multi-criteria framework, the relative dominance of each barrier is evaluated to devise implementa­ tion strategies in India where the adoption of UAV is in the nascent stages, and the agriculture is considered as the backbone of the economy. An exhaustive list of identified barriers (n = 32) is first analysed using Fuzzy Delphi to identify the barriers that are more relevant to the farmers of the Indian context. Fuzzy Analytical Hierarchy Process (FAHP) is used to evaluate the relative dominance of each barrier category and the barriers, which is further used to determine the local and global ranking of barriers. The empirical findings suggest that limited R&D, complex regulations, high investment costs, limited availability of skilled workforce, and the high costs of skilled labour are crucial barriers that inhibit Indian farmers from adopting UAVs. The novel findings of this study suggest that conducting awareness camps, workshops, training sessions, monetary incentives to farmers, tax benefits to the drone-based companies, and investing in R&D can overcome the majority of the identified barriers.