 The bark is astringent, and the leaves and the fruits are anthelmintic. The root is used in the treatment of skin diseases. A shrub with light-yellow flowers, growing wild in central provinces and western Peninsula and cultivated in other parts of India. 66 Carica papaya Indian laburnum H- Amaltas B-Sundali M-Bahava G-Garmala T-Konnei Tel-Rela Kan-Kakke It contains tannin, ranges from 10– 12%. The root bark extract is used in the treatment of black-water fever. A moderate sized deciduous tree with a bole 12–15 feet high. It is indigenous to India, and naturalized in tropical Africa, south-America and West Indies. It is sometimes cultivated for its beautiful yellow flower which appear during April–June. 67 Cassia occidentalis Negro coffee H- Kasondi B-Kalkashunda T-Nattam-taka Tel-Kasinda MalNatramtakara The leaves, roots and seeds are purgative. The seeds and leaves are also anti-periodic. The seeds are used as external application for skin diseases. A defuse under shrub found through out India. 68 Cassia tora - H- Chakunda B- Chakunda G-Kovariya M-Takla Tel-Tantemu Tam-Tagarai The seed containes glycoside and pleasant smelling fixed oil (5%), on saponification the oil yields oleic, linolics, palmitic and lignoceric acid. The seeds are used as coffee substitute. They are also reported to be used as a indigo dyeing. The leaves are useful in skin diseases and seeds are laxative. They can be used as a protein rich feed for livestock. A common herbaceous annual occurring as a weed throughout India. The pods are 6-9 feet long and up to 1/4 feet in diameter, containing flattened dark seeds. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 325 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 69 Casuarina equisetifolia Beef- wood H- Jangli saru B-Jau M-Suru G-Vilayatisaru Tel-Sarugudu T-Savukku Kan-Sarvemara Mal-Chavukku The bark of this tree is used in diarrhoea and dysentery.A lotion of it is reported to be efficacious in beriberi. Decoction of the leaves is used in colic and powdered seeds are applied as plaster in headache. The bark contains 6-18% of tannin. A large evergreen tree with a straight cylindrical bole. The ultimate branches are slender, cylindrical, jointed and green with leaves reduce to minute scales. It occurs wild on the stores at the head of Bay of Bengal, Burma and Andaman. 70 Cedrus deodara Deodar H-Deodar It is one of the most valuable Indian timber. It is considered suitable for second grade pencils. The wood possess diaphoretic, diuretic and carminative properties and is useful in fever, piles and pulmonary and urinary disorders. The bark is astringent and useful for fever, diarrhoea and dysentery. The oleoresin valued as an application to ulcers and skin diseases. A large evergreen handsome tree with spreading branches and and dark-green leaves.