 The vision of ICRAF is a rural transformation in the developing world where smallholder households strategically increase their use of trees in agricultural landscapes to improve their food security, nutrition, income, health and social cohesion, renewable source of energy and building material and environmental sustainability. The Centre generates science- based knowledge about the diverse roles that trees play in agricultural landscapes, and uses that research to advance the implementation of policies and practices that benefit the poor and the environment. As part of its work to bring tree-based solutions to bear on poverty and environmental problems, the Centre’s researchers working in close collaboration with national partners, have developed new technologies, tools and policy recommendations for increased food security and ecosystem health. International Centre for Research in Agroforestry ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 24 2.i. Over all contribution to Indian agriculture Scientific cooperation in the field of Agroforestry between ICAR and ICRAF started with signing of the first MOU between ICAR and ICRAF in 1985. Initially, the collaboration covered areas of climate change and restoration of degraded land which followed with the signing of collaborative work plans. ICRAF contributed in the formulation and approval of National Agroforestry Policy (NAP) of India in 2014, and ICRAF’s contribution was recognized by nominating it as one of the permanent members on the inter-ministerial committee that oversees the implementation of the policy. ICRAF continues its active involvement in the on-going implementations of NAP recommendations, and contributes to the development of the National Agroforestry Mission (Refer para 5.1.2 & 5.1.4 of National Agroforestry Policy, 2014). ICRAF facilitated and supported the establishment of arboretum at Central Agroforestry Research Institute (CAFRI) for collection and evaluation of germplasms of Jatropha, Anogeissus, Acacia, Sisham, Neem, Karanj and other multi-purpose tree species (MPTS). A protocol called “SMART-CDM” (Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Realistic, and Tangible – Clean Development Mechanism), developed by ICRAF’S team of scientists, was piloted through the National Agriculture Innovations Project (NAIP) on carbon finance, at four ecologies in India. A total area of 11, 678 ha, involving 5,492 small-holder families and 385 landless families contributed towards reduced emissions and sequestration of more carbon at the farm- house hold and community level by adopting climate change related interventions. Through the intervention of the project more than 390,790 trees were planted in the four grids (Almora, Mavli, Jaffergudum and Athagarh) with an approximate survival rate of above 75%. It is estimated that on average, farmers would realize more than Rs.100,000,000/grid at a conservative value of only Rs. 1000/ tree, on harvest of the planted trees.