7% of 10% pellets with coal as a fuel The actual increase in cost of production due to this @ ` 0.20 per Unit substitution based on the cost of production estimates Paddy straw consumption for 44,560 MW capacity 17.82 Million tons per year  11 Biogas Production from Paddy Straw at Domestic/Community Level P ADDY straw can be digested by anaerobic means for the production of biogas as a fuel for the kitchen as well as for power generation. The semi dry fermentation of organic wastes are carried out in the anaerobic digester. The digested material so produced from such anaerobic digestion is good quality manure ready for use in the fields. The anaerobic digestion and production of biogas is the most efficient way in terms of energy output per unit energy input for handling biomass resources. PAU Model Biogas Plant for Paddy Straw Based Biogas Production: The PAU, Ludhiana centre of the AICRP on Energy in Agriculture and Agro- Industries has developed a biogas plant considering the alternate use of paddy straw for bio-gas production. This is a very simple and efficient technology for extraction of biogas from paddy straw. This technology may be a viable alternative for individual farmer, a cluster of farmers or a community based biogas plant in a small village. Anaerobic digestion of paddy straw cannot be done by conventional anaerobic process for bio-gas production owing to the floating characteristics of straws in water. The PAU, Ludhiana has constructed masonry structure as digester. The digester diameter is about 3.0 m and height is 2.7 m and the volume is about 19 m3. The advantage of the masonry structure is that the whole structure is underground on which cold ambient temperatures have little effect during winter months. This process of semi-dry fermentation is a batch process and each batch of biomass produces biogas for a period of about 3 months after loading and activation. Each batch can hold 1.60 tonnes of paddy straw and 0.40 tonnes of cow dung as feed material. Water is added in plant to saturate the paddy straw. Gas production starts after about 7-10 days. The quantity of gas produced in such a plant will be about 3 to 4 m3 per day or it is equivalent to 2 to 3 cylinders of LPG per month. This may be used for cooking operations or other such energy options. Gas production continues for about 3 months and reloaded after 3 months after emptying it. The estimated cost of the biogas plant for handling about 1.6 tonne paddy straw is ` 1.2 lakhs which is about four times costly as compared to Biogas Production from Paddy Straw at Domestic/Community Level 12 Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options conventional animal dung based biogas plant of same capacity (biogas production). One biogas plant can manage 4.5-5.0 tonne of paddy straw per year. Six such biogas plants have been installed in Punjab and all the plants are working very well. A. Economic Analysis of 1.