 [Action: Director, NAARM/ADG (HRD)] 22 Agenda 9.13: Increasing intake capacity of students and placements in AUs BAU, Ranchi presented the agenda. It was advocated to introduce five to ten per cent weightage in UG seats for students coming from rural areas and also inclusion of agriculture in the middle level school syllabus. He gave suggestions for creating more jobs for the agriculture graduates and postgraduates and also recruitment of teachers on all India basis. The points were noted. [Action: All VC’s/ADG (HRD)] Agenda 9.14: Job Mela UAS, Bangalore presented the agenda. RAU, Pusa requested ICAR to help in organizing job mela in remote areas. The points were noted. [Action: ADG (HRD)] Agenda 10: EDUCATION PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT: ISSUES AND STATUS Agenda 10.1: Renovation and Rejuvenation of Higher Education: Salient Recommendations of Prof Yashpal Committee ADG (EPD) presented the agenda Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India appointed a committee under the chairmanship of Prof Yaspal, former Chairman, UGC in 28th February 2008 and the report was submitted on 1st March 2009. Some of the salient recommendations strengthening of basic sciences at the universities such as orientation course for VCs, Deans etc. and setting up of information cell at Education Division were highlighted. More feedback from VCs was invited. (Action: All VCs) Agenda 10.2: INSPIRE Scheme by DST ADG (EPD) presented the agenda. Innovation in Science Pursuit for Inspired Research (INSPIRE) is an innovative programme sponsored and 23 managed by the Department of Science & Technology for attraction of talent to Science. The basic objective of INSPIRE is to communicate to the youth of the country the excitements of creative pursuit of science, attract talent to the study of science at an early stage and thus build the required critical human resource pool for strengthening and expanding the Science & Technology system and R&D base. A similar scheme for attracting school students to agriculture education may be devised. Suggestions from VCs are invited. (Action: all VCs) Agenda 10.3: Benchmarking Criteria for Development Grant ADG (EPD) presented the agenda. Development grant is provided to all AUs as a catalytic support for imparting higher education. The ICAR is receiving about half of the grant approved under EFC. The number of AUs in the country has also gone up. There is need to evolve certain criteria based on economic status of State, number of SAUs in the State, the size of the university, State’s commitment to the university, resource mobilized, the number of colleges and disciplines, the faculty strength, the number of students annually produced, the quality output as determined by the accreditation committee etc. Benchmarking of each SAU may be done with pre-determined relevant parameters.