 OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 29 Education is at the heart of both personal and community development; its mission is to enable each of us, without exception, to develop all our talents to the full and to realize our creative potential, including responsibility for our own lives and achievement of our personal aim. There is therefore every reason to place renewed emphasis on the moral and cultural dimensions, apart from what is taught presently, enabling each person to grasp the individuality of other people and to understand the world’s progression towards an uncertain future. The 21st century is showing all signs of providing unprecedented means for communication and for the circulation and storage Four pillars of education: Making it happen is our challenge of the future of information. Therefore, it will impose on education two demands which at first sight may appear contradictory. Education must transmit, efficiently and on a massive scale, an increasing amount of constantly evolving knowledge and know-how adapted to a knowledge driven civilization, because this forms the basis of the skills of the future. At the same time , it must find Article Tej Partap 30 and mark the reference points that will make it possible, on the one hand, for people not to be overwhelmed by the flows of information, invading the public and private domains, and on the other, to keep the development of individuals and communities as its end in view. Education must, as it were, simultaneously provide maps of a complex world in individual must be equipped to seize learning opportunities throughout life, both to broaden her or his knowledge, skills and attitudes, and to adapt to a changing, complex and interdependent world. If it is to succeed in its task, then education must be organised around four fundamental types of learning, which throughout a progression which proceeds from the previous three. These four paths of knowledge, all form a whole with many points of contact, intersection and exchange among them. As against this imperative, our present formal education traditionally focusses mainly on two forms, learning to know and to some extent on learning to do. The other two dimensions of learnings are left to chance. There is need to advocate the view, and NEP 2020 fully endorses this viewpoint, that an academic environment be created that offers equal attention in all organized learning to each of these pillars. Meeting the challenges of the coming century would necessarily entail changing the aims of education, stressed by NEP 2020 and the expectations people have of what education can provide. A broad encompassing view of learning, as envisioned in NEP 2020, therefore should aim to enable each individual to discover, unearth and enrich his or her creative potentials, to reveal the treasure within.