 (T Mohapatra) Secretary Department of Agricultural Research and Education and Director General Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi   SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2018–19 13 characterization of soil physical (sand, silt, clay, bulk density) and chemical properties (N, P, K, pH and EC) of black soils (Vertisols) of central India. The soil quality index (SQI) was computed using both spectrally derived indicator values and laboratory derived measurement following the methods of scoring, weighting factor and principal component analysis (PCA). The results indicated a significant and positive correlation between laboratory derived SQI and spectral derived SQI for the studied Vertisols of central India. Observed SQI ranges from 0.66 to 0.99 while Spectral SQI (SSQI) ranges from 0.68 to 0.98. Improving water productivity and profit through drip irrigation: Drip irrigation (DI) was designed and used to enhance water productivity and profit in rice-based cropping sequence in an irrigated command of Odisha. Use of in-line DI system with 0.4 m emitter spacing, 2.1 litres/h emitter discharge and 1.0 m lateral- to-lateral distance in rice–capsicum–baby corn sequence enhanced productivity by 7.6 times higher than that of rice–rice system under surface irrigation (9.5 tonnes/ ha/year). Further, the drip system in the cropping sequence generated higher profit (annual net return, ` 4.35 lakh/ha; benefit-cost ratio, 2.9) with 30% water saving resulting in 6 times higher water productivity (WP) compared with net return of ` 0.56 lakh/ha/yr with benefit-cost ratio of 1.6 and WP of 0.42 kg/m3 under rice–rice cropping in the command area. Development of groundwater recharge filters: Groundwater recharge filters were developed by Rahuri, and Ludhiana centres of AICRP on IWM. Filter developed by Rahuri centre consisted of a four-layer filter comprising Brick flakes (BF-I) of size 24.28 mm, Sand (SG-I) of size 0.6–2.0 mm, Angular Gravel (AG-I) of grade 9.5–15.5 mm and Pea Gravel (PG-I) of size 20–24 mm having thickness of each layer as 25 cm and total thickness of 100 cm. This filter was tested at three different locations in the command area of Musalwadi minor irrigation project canal. It showed filtration efficiency of 84.49%, which can be considered as satisfactory performance with recharge capacity of 1,511,525 litres at research farm and farmers’ field. Cost of the filter accordingly was ` 12,540 only. A composite filter developed by Ludhiana centre with material combination of 30 cm Brick flakes: 15 cm Gravel: 15 cm Coarse sand: 15 cm activated granular charcoal had highest silt removal efficiency of 72.7%, nitrate reduction by 25% and maximum filtration rate of 1.5 litres/s. An important fact about the filter is that in areas where soluble chemicals (e.g. nutrients like nitrate) are the critical pollutants in water, activated charcoal may prevent movement of these chemicals to underground soil layers and groundwater.