 Rice’s amylose content is the most signiﬁcant factor in determining its eating and processing properties. It is largely composed of α-1,4 glucose molecules with lengthy straight chains. It may also contain a few a-1,6 branching sites, however. The linear structure of amylose confers unique features to the starch, such as the ability to form compounds with iodine. The apparent amylose content (AAC) of a starch sample can be assessed via the iodine–amylose complex. AAC is distinguished from amylose by the presence of long branch chains of amylopectin, which can likewise create color when treated with iodine. The AAC of waxy rice is below 2%, whereas the AAC of common rice varies from deﬁcient (5–12%) to low (12–20%) to moderate (20–25%) to high (25–33%). [72,84]. 5.6. Functional Compound There are limited studies regarding the bioactive compound in parboiled white rice. Most of the bioactive compounds were only found in parboiled colored rice. There is a slight decrease in the total phenolic content of parboiled white rice after the treatment [64,65]. The decrease in phenolic content of the pigment during parboiling may be due to leaching, thermal decomposition, and interaction with other molecules, mainly proteins [75]. Rice protein content comprises amino acids (AAs). Parboiled rice is a good source of seven out of nine essential amino acids, namely, Threonine, Histidine, Valine, Methionine, Phenylala- nine, Isoleucine, and Lysine. The amounts of AA in parboiled rice are shown in Table 4. The majority of the AAs in cooked rice are essential AAs. Essential AAs cannot be produced in the human body; therefore, we must obtain it from our daily consumption. The greater Lysine level of parboiled rice versus milled rice may be due to the release of free AAs by proteolytic activity during steeping and prior to steaming [73]. Other studies have found that AA content in rice was affected by the development stage of the rice grain [85]. Rice bran contained a higher AAs concentration than rice endosperm because AAs was largely localized in the outer bran layers and moved to the endosperm. This factor may have contributed to a higher level of Lysine during extraction. Most of the bioactive compounds decreased after hydrothermal parboiling treatment. Previous studies examined several phenolic compounds in parboiled rice. Phenolic acids are hydroxylated derivatives of hydro benzoic and hydrocinnamic acids found in plants as esters, glycosides, and complexes [73]. Parboiled rice has 10 out of 11 phenolic acids tested. During parboiling, phenolic acids migrate from the bran layers, changing the distribution of phenolic acids in milled rice. Tian et al. (2004) found numerous arabinoxylans in aleurone layer walls, which may have kept ferulic acid in the bound form [86]. Ferulic acid predominates in wheat, rice, and barley. Ferulic acid has antioxidant activity, anti- inﬂammatory, and anti-cancer properties. Higher phenolic acids caused a greater color difference.