 : 978-81-7164-086-7 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming November 2020 41 Seaweed farming in India Progress and Prospects Johnson, B1 and Boby Ignatius*2 ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Mandapam Camp, Tamil Nadu 623 520 Seaweeds are exploited commercially for their cell wall polysaccharides such as agar, algin, carrageenan and for manure, fodder and bioactive metabolites. Seaweed also represents an excellent source of fatty acids, vitamins and minerals. It is marine macrophytic thallophytes consisting of taxonomically distinguished groups of green (Chlorophyta), brown (Phaeophyta) and red (Rhodophyta) seaweeds. These seaweed resources grow best in the tidal and inter-tidal waters along the peninsular coastline, Andaman-Nicobar and Lakshadweep Archipelagos. India is bestowed with more than 0.26 million tonnes (potential yield) wet harvestable biomass of seaweeds belonging to 700 species. Of these, nearly 60 species are economically important for their polysaccharides and secondary metabolites. Approximately 20,000 tonnes (wet weight; i.e., 4,000 tonnes dry weight) of these resources are harvested annually from the wild in India. Keywords: Agar, Bamboo raft, CadalminTM GAc, ICAR-CMFRI, Integrated Multi-Trophic Aquaculture, Livelihood, Seaweed Indian Farming 70(11): 42–45; November 2020 T HE ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) has been working on seaweed mariculture and seaweed utilization in India since 1972. Mandapam Regional Station of CMFRI has developed the technology for commercial scale cultivation of Gracilaria edulis, an agar yielding red algae, using raft, coir-rope nets/spore method. This Station has also developed a cottage industry method for the manufacture of agar from Gracilaria spp. and alginic acid from Sargassum spp. during 1980s and demonstrated the agar and algin production to many farmers and entrepreneurs. These demonstrations have paved ways for development of many small-scale agar industries at Madurai, Tamil Nadu. Seaweed Farming: Current Status Seaweed farmers in India are generally small-scale farmers, produce crops of (mostly) red algae in small patches of intertidal sand flats. The main culture methods involve either vegetative propagation using fragments from mother plants or by different kinds of spores. In places which are calm and shallow, raft method (12 × 12 feet bamboo poles) is ideal. Vegetative fragments inserted ropes are tied to the floating raft. In places characterized by moderate wave action, shallow depth and the presence of less herbivorous fishes, longline or monoline method is ideal. Seaweed inserted ropes are tied to the posts planted in the sandy and muddy bottom of the intertidal regions.