 It has also been found to contain compounds which were responsible for inhibiting uric acid formation in hyperuricemic induced lab wistar rat and it shows potential for developing medicine to cure gout. Soursop Leaves Crude Extract (AMCE) exhibited cytotoxicity toward breast cancer cell lines and reduced the tumor’s size and weight in lab mice. Thus it is a promising candidate for cancer treatment especially in breast cancer as an alternative to conventional drugs. Extracts of Annona muricata and Annona reticulata inhibited the growth of Plasmodium falciparum, a malaria causing organism. The aqueous extract of Annona muricata (Graviola tea) has shown considerable antioxidant potentials. The bark, leaves, fruit, roots and seeds are known since long for various medicinal uses. The fruit and juice is used against worms and parasites, to cool down fevers, to increase lactation after childbirth. The seeds can be crushed and then used against internal or external parasites, head lice and worms. The tea prepared from the leaves is used as a sedative and a soporific (inducer of sleep) in the West Indies and Peruvian Andes. This infusion is also used to relief pain or for antispasmodic purposes. For liver problems, leaf tea is used in the Brazilian Amazon. Traditionally it is used in medicinal herbal drugs to cure various diseases such as for diarrhoea (fruit), cough, hypertension, rheumatism, tumours, cancer, asthma, childbirth, lagtagogue (fruit), malaria, tranquilizer, skin rashes, parasites (seeds), worms (seeds), liver problems, arthritis (used externally), etc. The leaf decoction is lethal to head lice and bedbugs. The wood is pale, aromatic, soft, light in weight and not durable. It has been used for ox yokes because it does not cause hair loss on the neck. The roots of the tree are employed as a vermifuge and the root bark as an antidote for poisoning. Nowadays people are more aware of the detrimental effects of Allelopathic medicine. So, they are starting to look for alternative medicine, which is eco-friendly and gives no side effects. Moreover, taking delicious fruits as medicine also gives an immense pleasure to the patient thereby giving an added psychological push to the healing process. People are willing to pay any amount for a side-effects-free alternative medicine. Tea prepared from soursop leaves and stem has recently been gaining wider popularity and shade dried leaves and stem fetches very premium prices in e-commerce vendors. It is more convenient to store and transport dried leaves and stem as opposed to fruits which are highly perishable and may not ripen properly in fluctuation of storage temperature. Therefore, due to changing market demand, leaf production of soursop would be a lucrative business since the leaves contain annonaceous acetogenins. Propagation and planting Soursop can be propagated from seed and by budding.