 In horticultural crops, total 122 varieties were notified for cultivation under different agroclimatic conditions. These included 15 varieties of fruits, 1 of plantation crops, 97 of vegetables, 2 of tropical tubers and 7 of spices. The molecular linkage maps of two grape varieties (Carolina Black Rose and Thompson Seedless) developed. Genome assembly of Indian pomegranate cv. Bhagawa was released. Varietal signature for genetic purity of spices were identified and identity of nutmeg varieties IISR Vishwashree, IISR Keralashree and Sindhushree established. Marker free late blight resistant transgenic line KJ 66 of potato identified. A total 1047 activation tagged lines were generated in potato cv. Kufri Jyoti and Kufri Chipsona 1 using activation tagging vector pSKI015. Targeted editing of potato genome was done to develop variety specific True Potato Seed (TPS). icar annual report 2022-23 3 Overview A total of 16 lines of potato with mutation within MiMe genes (StOSD, StREC8 and StSP011) were generated. Molecular identification and diversity of 25 Pleurotus mushrooms were investigated. Seven new hybrid strains of Pleurotus were developed by mating single spores from Pleurotus ostreatus (DMRP 30) and Pleurotus florida (DMRP 49). The biological efficiency was maximum recorded for hybrid P18102 (79.00%) in two flushes compared to parents and check on pasteurized wheat straw. Livestock Improvement: The evidence of selection signatures in the datasets of 284 individuals of Tharparkar cattle along with 11 other indigenous and exotic cattle breeds were demonstrated. Significant candidate genes were identified related to various important traits such as ADRB2 in Tharparkar; HERC5, SCC25A48 in Gir; CA8 in Ongole and KIAI217 in Sahiwal for milk production; PARN in Holstein; ZBTB20 in Sahiwal; and APBB1 in Tharparkar for reproduction; SP110 in Brown Swiss; HSP90AB1 in Tharparkar and Red Sindhi for thermo- tolerance trait. The influence of X-linked genes on the sperm functional parameters and field fertility rate in the cattle and Murrah buffalo bulls was studied. The sperm transcriptome studies revealed that the total number and the expression levels of X-linked genes in the mature sperm were very low in both species, and only 23.3% of these genes were commonly expressed between them. The X- linked genes related to embryonic organ development and reproduction were enriched in cattle and buffalo sperm, respectively. The expression levels of X-linked genes RPL10 and ZCCHC13 in cattle, and AKAP4, TSPAN6, RPL10 and RPS4X in buffalo were significantly correlated with sperm kinematics. Evidently, the expression level of RPL10 and RPS4X was significantly correlated with the field fertility rate in cattle and buffalo, respectively. Multivariate regression models and receiver operating curve analysis suggested that the expression levels of X-linked genes may be useful in predicting the bull fertility rate.