 Keywords: cucumber, water melon, musk melon, seed, ash Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2447 Storage of sweet potato Farmers of Keonjhar district of Orissa store tubers of sweet potato in dry sand beds of 8-10 cm thickness. The tubers thus can be stored for over a year. Keywords: sweet potato tuber, dry sand bed Shri Kashinath Sahu Anandpur Keonjhar (Orissa) 2303 Hanging of onion and garlic bulbs along with leaves, and maize cobs with covered leaves for seed storage Small and marginal farmers of Dhule, Ahmednagar, Nandurbar and Jalgaon districts of Maharashtra preserve onion, garlic and maize for seed purpose by hanging on bamboo sticks covered with leaves. It is hanged from roof of the house. At the time of sowing the hanged material is taken and then the leaves are removed and used as seed for sowing. Keywords: onion and garlic bulbs, maize cobs, hanging, roof Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of tuar katha (pigeonpea stalk) for storage of onion bulbs Farmers of Barshi tehsil of Solapur district and Parner, Rahuri tehsils of Ahmednagar district use the stalk of pigeonpea to keep in the pile of the onion. Due to sufficient space left for ventilation, the storage quality of onion bulb increases, upto 4-5 months. Keywords: pigeonpea, onion, ventilation Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Preservation of wood of baheda and harra in appropriate manner Tribals of Akole tehsil of Ahmednagar district have specific technology for preserving the wood of baheda (Terminalia belerica) and harra (Terminalia chebula) without Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722  splittings, and maintaining the quality. Keywords: wood preservation, baheda, harra, wood splitting Contents 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,  Search Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture Document 2 (Supplement 1) Chapter 10 Horticultural Crops Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2479 Increasing germination percentage of solanaceous vegetable seeds by using 3 day old butter milk Farmers of Pavas village of Sivagangai district in Tamil Nadu have been using this practice to increase germination percentage of solanaceous vegetable seeds since decades. The seeds of brinjal, chilli and tomato are soaked in 3-day old butter milk for 6 hours before seeding. This results in 80% germination of the seeds. Keywords: butter milk, germination, brinjal, chilli, tomato Dr S.