 yy Provide one lemon +100 jaggery+50g salt in drinking water to all the animals during hot weather sun light. Don’t not keep the water trough directly under sun light, keep it under shade yy Sprinkle the water all over the surface of animal’s body and don’t put wet gunny bag over the animal’s body. 216 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy If any clinical signs like severe salivation, off feed, restless, diarrhoea, loss of milk yield, consult veterinary scientist yy Should not feed stunted sorghum (before flouring stage) to animals leads to HCN poisoning finally results in collapse of animal. Small Ruminants (Sheep and goat) yy Keep animals in well ventilated shelters/tree shades yy Locally available feed materials may be effectively used for feeding and the same popularized yy Hydroponics fodder may be utilized wherever available. yy Before the onset of monsoon, based on worm load by dung examination, deworming to be done with appropriate deworming medicine. yy Enterotoxaemia vaccine should be done during May and pox vaccination yy Blue tongue vaccination should be done between July and August yy New animals added to the herd should be quarantined for 25 days to assess incidence of PPR or any other infection yy 250-300 gms of concentrate feed should be given to the pregnant ewes to avoid stillbirth or weak kids which is common in June, July months due to scarcity of pasture in grazing yy Fodder tree seedlings should be cultivated by using the rainfall and green fodder leaves may be fed to the animals yy Crop residues, unconventional feeds such as tapioca leaves, onion crop residues, banana leaves and stems etc., may be fed to the animals in case of scarcity of pasture in grazing lands. yy Azolla supplementation may be taken-up @ 250-500 gms/sheep/ goat per day yy Dipping with acaricides should be carried out to get rid of ectoparasites (ticks/fleas) in small ruminants. yy Farmers to utilize the validated EVM practices 217 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Hang mineralized salt lick @1 block for 5 number of animals. yy Provide ad libidum m water. yy Focus new born kids/lamb or pregnant animal with special husbandry care. Poultry (Desi-chicken) yy Chicks may be purchased from authorised hatcheries of Veterinary University or private hatcheries with proper precautionary measures of maintaining social distance and wearing face mask at farm and the hatchery. yy Desi birds should be vaccinated against Ranikhet Disease (7th day F1 strain (Eye drop), 28th day Lasota (Eye drop), 56th day RDVK vaccine). yy Amla/butter milk or lemon juice may be added in good quality drinking water to alleviate stress in birds yy To improve the growth rate 1 per cent protein level (soya bean meal) may be added in the feed. yy Suitable coccidiostat should be added in the feed continuously by consulting the local veterinarian to prevent coccidiosis yy 3-5 grams of oyster shell/limestone/grit per day/bird shall be given to laying hens to avoid leathery eggs.