 Physical properties of instant powder, Infant food. Spoilage of milk powder and its control. Khoa : composition and changes during manufacture. Composition and changes during preparation of chhana and paneer. Unit 7 Cheese : Composition and varietal differences. Chemistry of rennin action. Influence of acidity, renneting and heat on the process of cheese manufacture. Changes during manufacture and ripening. Role and mechanism of action of stabilizers and emulsifiers, rheological properties and defects of cheese. Milk clotting enzymes from different sources – microbial, animal and plant. Theories and metabolic pathways of fermentation. Dahi, yoghurt and Acidophilus Milk : Composition and specific differences, chemical changes during fermentation, flavour development. Composition of Lassi and buttermilk. Nutritional and therapeutic significance of fermented milk products. Unit 8 Ice-cream : Composition and physical structure, changes during ageing, freezing, hardening and defects. Role and mechanism of stabilizers and emulsifiers. Kulfi: composition and differences with ice-cream. Unit 9 Definition of quality, quality control and assurance. Standards, statutory and voluntary organization. PFA act, sampling, labelling, PFA and AGMARK, BIS, ISO9000 standards for milk products. Total quality management, sensory evaluation of milk and milk products. Calibration of glasswares (lactometer, butyrometer, milk pipette, thermometer) used in Quality control laboratory, legal requirements of packaging material and product information, nutrition labeling. Unit 10 Spectroscopy – UV – Vis spectrophotometry, IR. Separation techniques : TLC, GLC, HPLC, Ion exchange, size exclusion, affinity chromatography, analytical sedimentation, sedimentation equilibrium, isopycnic ultracentrifugation. Ultrafiltration. Precipitation by salting out agents. Electrophoresis – PAGE, SDS-PAGE, Radio-tracers technique. Flame photometry and potentiometry (principle, various electrodes, electrometric measurements of pH, buffers). 8.2. FOOD TECHNOLOGY Unit 1: Introductory Food Technology Introduction to food technology, Food processing industries/institutions/food scientists of importance in India, Food attributes viz. colour, texture, flavour, nutritive value and consumer preferences, Causes of food spoilage, sources of microbial contamination of foods, food borne illnesses, water activity and its relation to spoilage of foods, Spoilage of processed products and their 80 detection, Principles and methods of food preservation. Food fortification, Composition and related quality factors for processing. Methods of food preservation such as heat processing, pasteurization, canning, dehydration, freezing, freeze drying, fermentation, microwave, irradiation and chemical additives. Refrigerated and modified atmosphere storage. Aseptic preservation, hurdle technology, hydrostatic pressure technology and microwave processing.