 Conflicting views between participants within a group were acknowledged in the analysis and were further analyzed based on the individual characteristics of participants to gain deeper contextual insights. 3. Climate-smart agriculture in India: understanding the policy context, adoption, and access to extension services through a gender lens Drawing upon FAO’s definition, CSA practices came to be widely understood globally as those agricultural practices that generate “triple- wins”—i.e., sustainable agricultural growth leading to improved income and food security, enhanced resilience to cope with climate change impacts, and reduced GHG emissions from the agriculture sector, and any agricultural practice that can improve one of these aspects can be considered “climate-smart” (Jat et al., 2020; Deepika et al., 2018; Tay­ lor, 2018). The concept of CSA became popular among relevant stakeholders across countries before the development of a formal conceptual frame­ work and implementation tools. Therefore, as it started getting imple­ mented across various contexts, considerable debates emerged around what CSA entails and some of these debates continue even now. This includes different understanding of the concepts of ‘farmers’ resilience and adaptive capacities’, as well as ‘resource use efficiency’ in agricul­ tural production systems. One criticism is that CSA fails to acknowledge the vast inequities in access to resources (land, farming inputs, water, and food) among farmers, leading to different CSA approaches and policy priorities across varying contexts, as well as in implementation. As Lipper and Zilberman (2018), p.13) discussed, “recent controversies which have arisen over CSA are rooted in longstanding debates in both the climate and sustainable agricultural development policy spheres.” These debates focus on the role of mitigation, particularly for the agri­ culture sector in low- and middle-income countries, as they are not the primary contributors to global GHG emissions. Considerable differences have also arisen in the type of CSA technologies promoted for sustain­ able agriculture. Those who oppose this approach argue that the goals of productivity, sustainability, and mitigation cannot be achieved together. Prominent agrarian social movements such as La Via Campesina have criticized the CSA approach as a “façade dominated by a corporate oligarchy under which a business-as-usual approach can proceed” (Taylor, 2018, p.90). Various experts condemn the involvement of large corporate firms, supermarket chains, and agrochemical firms (Taylor, 2018; Neufeldt et al., 2013) in CSA processes, arguing that private sector interests might lead to promoting technologies or practices (new seed varieties, increased fertilizer application and pesticides) that are expensive and pose possible ecological and economic risks for smaller- scale farmers.