 The Mission Mode Project on 'Collection, Documentation and Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITK)' has been a land mark effort not only in documenting 4880 inventories of ITKs in agriculture in three volumes but also in providing first hand results of validation on selected 111 ITKs experimented by the scientists of ICAR Institutions and State Agricultural/Animal Science Universities across the country.The results of the experiments indicated the rationality and efficacy of the ITKs in solving many of the problems faced by the farmers and other practitioners in sustaining their enterprises. The promising 38 selected ITKs were further subjected to cross sectoral validation involving a few more research institutions for in-depth analysis and for identifying the active ingredients responsible for solving the problem. The present volume entitled Cross-sectoral Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture - Document 4 encompasses the results of cross- sectoral validation studies. It is firmly believed that the findings of,the experiments would provide a solid base for the future researchers, planners, policy makes as well as for the farmers and other practitioners to look back at the wisdom of the ITKs and incorporate the same in the research and development agenda. The project team expresses its deep sense of gratitude to Dr Mangala Rai, Secretary (DARE) and Director-General (ICAR) for constant encouragement right from the inception of the project. The support received from National Agricultural Technology Project, particularly of Dr J. C. Katyal, National Director, Dr S. L. Mehta, former National Director, and Dr K. P. Agrawal, National Coordinator is highly acknowledged. The stupendous efforts made by the project personnel in implementing the programmes, collation and synthesis of the results, and bringing out this document deserve appreciation. The cooperation received from Directorate of Information and Publication in Agriculture (DIPA) is bringing out this document in a short time is highly appreciated. The assistance received from Shri Sanjay Kushwaha, Technical Officer, ZC Unit, Jabalpur, Shri Vikas Jain and Ms Gigi Annee Abraham, both Research Associates and Ms Seema Naberia, Senior Research Fellow of the Lead Centre in compiling this Document is appreciated. New Delhi 15 December 2004 (PDAS) Deputy Director-General (AE) and Mission Leader I Contents Foreword The concept of sustainability in Indian agricultural scenario has evoked interest on indigenous technical knowledge that has the element of use of natural products to solve problems pertaining to agriculture and allied activities through natural processes. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) launched a Mission Mode Project on "Collection, Documentation and Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITK)" under National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP).