 From the sale of saplings, he has earned ` 3.00 lakh. Thus, as on today, he has earned a net profit of ` 11.00 lakh, and is very much confident of earning higher profits in future too. Looking into the profits/benefits and realizing the importance of dragon fruit, farmers of different taluks and districts from surrounding areas like Muddebihal, Torvi, Atalatti, Nidgundi, Dhavalgi, Hoskote, Kadur have purchased seedlings from him and started dragon fruit farming in their respective fields. Success Story Source: ICAR-Annual Report 2022-23 A view of dragon fruit orchard and sapling unit of Shri Pavankumar Basappa Rangatti Indian Horticulture 20 Side Bud Grafting: Rapid Propagation in Darjeeling Mandarin Darjeeling Mandarin (Citrus reticulata Blanco) is one of the important cash crops for the farmers of Sikkim and Darjeeling hills. The crop is grown in hills since time immemorial. The mandarin orchards in the Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills of West Bengal are declining at an alarming rate. Major reasons for the decline are attacks of pests and diseases, old and senile orchards, lack of scientific know- how on cultivation and lack of quality planting material for replanting. Orchard needs to be replaced with healthy quality planting over the years, there has been a huge demand for healthy quality planting material in Darjeeling Mandarin. Side Bud grafting has been a successful technique of grafting for rapid propagation in Darjeeling Mandarin developed by ICAR-IARI Regional Station Kalimpong. Side Bud grafting has a high rate of success and can be easily adapted by farmers for mass multiplication of planting material. Natasha Gurung1, Dwijendra Barman, Sujit Sarkar, Narendra Prasad and Bijoy Singh D ARJEELING Mandarin (Citrus reticulata Blanco) is one of the important cash crops for the farmers of Sikkim and Darjeeling hills. The crop is grown in hills since time immemorial. For most farmers, it is the only source of income that sustains their livelihood. The area under Darjeeling Mandarin is decreasing at an alarming rate. One of the major reasons for the decline is the attack of pests and diseases and lack of planting material, most of the planting materials in the region are of seedling origin. Most of the orchards are old and senile, this needs to be replanted with healthy quality planting material. There is a huge demand for quality planting material of Darjeeling mandarin. Propagation through seeds takes a longer time for production and due to their polyembryonic nature seedlings through seeds are not true to type. Rootstocks play an important role in the citrus industry. Rootstocks are known to have a profound effect Prospects on the vigor, precocity, productivity, internal quality, and longevity of the scion varieties grafted on them. They are also known to influence the susceptibility of trees to various diseases and insects.