 483 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Improved Storage Post harvest management plays an important role in supply chain in delivery of quality produce and fetching highest price of the produce. Unscientific and conventional methods of storage and handling of agricultural produce adversely affect the quality and price realized by the farmers. The scientific methods of storage increase shelf-life of produce reduce losses. Depending on the diverse nature of agri-commodities being produced in the state, different types of storage infrastructure viz. warehouses, cold rooms, mobile pre-cooling units, cold storages are required. The following initiatives have been taken by the Govt of Sikkim i. HCCD Godown at Rangpo which is also use by NERMAC ii. Central Godown (wholesale market) at Rangpo HCCD department iii. Refrigerator van-run by SIMFED iv. Bamboo treatment plant at Rangpo v. Godown near ICAR office used by HCCD/FSDD vi. Model floriculture centre at Namli East-Sikkim vii. MPCS Godown at Namok- 100 MT capacity viii. MPCS Godown at Darap - 150 MT capacity ix. MPCS Godown at Mellidara - 100 MT capacities Processing and Value Addition The profitability of the farmers depends on multiple factors viz awareness on the demand, better markets, quality, and value addition to the produce. In general, there is lack of awareness about processing and value addition of agricultural produce in the state. Post-harvest management and value addition increases the profit margin of the farmers. The primary processing that includes cleaning, grading and sorting and packaging of the produce can be encouraged at farmer’s level or cluster level with common infrastructure. The state has great potential for value addition in organically grown ginger, cardamom, turmeric, flowers including orchids, mandarin, strawberry, kiwi, etc. i. Seed processing laboratory at Majitar ii. Pack house run by SIMFED Improving productivity and health of livestock The following interventions have been suggested by the department of animal husbandry Dairy sector i. Raise animals in a system that takes into consideration issues of environmental pollution and human health ii. Livestock diversification for insurance during calamities as well as household nutrition iii. Conservation of indigenous breed (Siri Breed) suitable to organic Animal Husbandry 484 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 iv. Use of low external inputs, lessen cost of production. v. Achieve per capita milk availability at par with developed countries, from 243gms to 280gms. vi. Strengthen breeding facilities, AI & NS. vii. Strengthen Veterinary infrastructure for better reproductive health care. viii. Facilitate easy access to bank loans at low interest rates under DEDS & NLM. ix. Promotion of good quality of fodder varieties. x. Extensive extension and training, also exposure visits outside Sikkim. Poultry Sector i.