 High Resource Use Efficiency Adoption of superior cultivars also demands higher usage of resources like water and fertilizers. Eighty nine percent of total cultivated area does not have irrigation facility. The irrigation 481 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 facilities are available 11% of the cultivated area. Though this region is under high rainfall zone and post monsoon there is scarcity of water. The harvesting of rain water would be beneficial. Construction of Jalkund with the capacity of 30,000 lt has been tested by the ICAR-NOFRI. The irrigation systems like drip and sprinkler need to be promoted for efficient use of water. Moisture conservation through organic mulching as well as plastic mulching should also be promoted. Since declaration of Sikkim as organic state in 2015, the use of agriculture chemicals including fertilisers is ban. The requirement of plant nutrients are met through the organic sources like composting, farm yard manure, biopesticides, biofertlisers etc. Most soils of the state are acidic and the pH ranges from 4.5-5.5. Such soils retard microbial growth and uptake of nutrients. The application of organic sources of plant nutrients and soil amendments ameliorate physical conditions of soil and increase the pH level. The soil test based plant nutrient management would be helpful in efficient use of plant nutrients and further, intercropping with legumes and green manure crops for improving soil health. Certain crop rotations e.g. ginger + maize on raised beds and mulching with ferns and animal bedding, seed potato + pea with application of farm yard manure. Till the year 2013-14, 31, 592 soil cards have been issued by the State Agriculture Department. d. Increasing Cropping Intensity Sikkim has very large (89%) area under rain-fed condition and farmers to grow only one or two crops in a year. Cropping intensity is the ratio of gross cropped area to net cropped area. The cropping intensity of the state can be increased by assuring water supply and making efficient use of water through micro irrigation devices. Suitable intercrops, crop rotations are to be adopted requiring less water during the period of scarcity. Maize is the major crop of the state and nearly 50% of the area under this crop is shown once. There is enough scope in utilizing winter remains fallow for cultivation of crops like mustard and buckwheat. e. Crop Diversification Crop diversification is probably one of the most cost effective and assured means to boost farmers’ income. There are several alternatives available viz. shifting to genetically superior hybrids and varieties, cultivation high value crops with diversified usage etc. The people of 482 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Sikkim have realized the potential of diversification of agriculture. Various alternatives in fruits, vegetables and flowers have been tested.