 We combined all four land cover categories in the final ground truth data and sampled 1500 pixels using stratified weighted random sampling, where the allocation of samples across the clas- ses was proportional to the area of each predicted land cover class. We compared class assignments and predicted land cover at the selected 1500 pixels and generated a con- fusion matrix (see Appendix S1: Table S1). Models of bird species richness and abundance We modeled bird species richness and abundance as functions of the proportion of semi-perennial crops, the proportion of annual crops, the proportion of woody veg- etation, land cover diversity, and mean field size. We first modeled bird species richness and abundance responses for resident species of the Indian subcontinent (n = 118). Next, we fitted models for bird species richness and abun- dance of Palearctic migratory birds that winter in India ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS 7 of 17 (n = 26). Additionally, we fitted three guild-specific abundance models to assess the trophic response of the Palearctic migratory birds. We distinguished carnivores (mostly raptors such as kestrels and harriers), open- ground feeders (e.g., larks), and species preferring shrub habitats on the breeding grounds. We fitted Bayesian Generalized Linear Mixed Effects Models (GLMM) using the “rstanarm” package in R.4.2.2 (Goodrich et al., 2024). We standardized (Z-scores) all environmental variables prior to modeling and checked for multicollinearity between all covariates using Spearman’s correlation coefficient with a cutoff point of jrj < 0.5. Consequently, the proportion of savanna grass- land cover was not used as a predictor, as it was signifi- cantly correlated with the areas of annual (r = −0.59) and semi-perennial (r = −0.78) cultivation (see Appendix S1: Figure S5). We used weakly informative priors drawn from a normal distribution with a mean of 1 and an SD of 2.5. We evaluated the convergence of Markov chains using the Gelman–Rubin statistic (Gelman & Rubin, 1992). Model coefficients were interpreted as effect sizes, and effects were deemed credible with “high certainty” if their 95% credibility interval did not include zero and with “low certainty” if their 50% credibility interval did not include zero. We considered 50% intervals in our methods for two reasons. First, this approach accounts for effects that are less pronounced but show a clear posi- tive or negative tendency (Amrhein et al., 2019; McShane & Gelman, 2022; Pflüger et al., 2024). Second, avoiding a rigid statistical threshold allows for a more transparent and nuanced interpretation of our results and discourages selective reporting for significant out- comes (Amrhein et al., 2019; Gelman, 2016). Effects were deemed inconclusive if both 95% and 50% credible intervals included zero. We assessed our models using graphical posterior predictive checks produced with the “bayesplot” package (Gabry et al., 2019).