 Dry fish products have a huge demand in the North eastern states of India and of late these are finding markets in middle east where Indian diaspora has significant presence. Within the past three years more than 40 entrepreneurs have taken up this technology through ICAR -CIFT. Recently the dry fish products are being promoted in the coastal districts of Odisha through World Fish Programme. Applicable to all regions in India, and particularly for the North Eastern states Battered and Breaded fish and shell fish products Battered and breaded fish and shellfish products comes under the category of convenience products which has a huge market potential in the urban and middle- class segments. Mainly applicable to the urban markets of India, and also for export to US and EU. 289 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Domain Actionable points/Strategies Specific technologies available Regions where applicable Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement This can be implemented as a small-scale business operation involving SHG’s catering to snack food joints or as a big scale automated industry catering to domestic retail chains and export sector. Has the potential to enhance the income of fishers at least by 35%. This can be started as a part of the already established chain of chilled fish products thereby ensuring product diversification and full utilisation of raw material. ICAR -CIFT has transferred the technology for at least 50 entrepreneurs within a span of five years which include individual entrepreneurs, SHG’s and registered sea food companies. Mince based fish products Mince fish-based products offer great scope for utilisation of trash and underutilised species. These products come under the category of convenience snack products. There is good demand for these products in fast moving consumer goods segment. This can be a good option for income generation for fishers groups and societies with market linkage. ICAR- CIFT has the technology for the commercialisation of various fish mince-based products. The institute has licensed this technology to more than 20 entrepreneurs/ private sector firms since 2017. Applicable to all regions in India, and particularly for FMCG segment 290 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Domain Actionable points/Strategies Specific technologies available Regions where applicable Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement Ready to serve fish products in retortable pouches and cans. One of the best options for the preparation of convenience fish products by thermal processing without any additives. The products have extended shelf life in ambient conditions. Ensures high value for the catch to the primary fishers. ICAR-CIFT has the technology package offering completes solution for starting RTE product unit. Has commercialised the technology to more than 25 firms /entrepreneurs all over India on consultancy basis.