 Therefore, we use exogenously determined local level market-level wages to value the time trade-offs and minimize the bias. To examine the workloads across 2 In addition to time use, diets and wages information we use household level information. This household information is a panel where the information was collected through two surveys- one is 2014 (detailed in Gupta et al., 2017) and the other one in 2016 (see A1). In this study, we use the household information for the descriptive of households and sub-sample analysis. 3 Kharif crops, are the crops which are grown during the monsoon or rainy season. There are two main cropping cycles in India – Kharif and Rabi (winter crop). 4 The supplementary material is in local language (Marathi). V. Vemireddy and P.L. Pingali Food Policy 101 (2021) 102074 5 seasons and the underlying mechanisms, we use the time use data collected in our survey. The time use variables collected in this survey are detailed in A2. Further, our rationale for using agricultural wages as an opportunity cost to estimate the relationship across the sample is as follows: In our study, women and men are actively engaged in farming. Findings from the survey suggest that about 85% of women in the sample participate in wage work. This is further supported by the fact that the average size of landholding is 3 acres (1.2 ha). About 31 percent of them are landless, while most of the sample households own below 5 acres of land. They participate in farming either through their own land, leased land and/or as agricultural labor. Given the large percentage of women who participate in farming activities as agricultural labor, the village level market wages serve as the minimum value for measuring time trade-offs. For women who participate in work on their own farms as well, we argue that the local wage will serve as the floor opportunity cost. However, we recognize that this does not estimate the true opportunity cost. In the household survey, about 15 percent of the women do say that they engage in secondary and tertiary sectors besides agriculture. However, when we look at the time use patterns, in addition to agriculture involvement, we find that only about 23 households spend their time in secondary and tertiary activities across the ten months. In terms of their time spent, an average across all the ten months does not exceed 5 min among these 15 households, and the maximum being 46 min during November 2017 (see A3 & A4). For these reasons, we believe that using agricultural wages is the most suited method. We also show a specifi­ cation where we drop these households (see A5). 3.3. Estimation The reduced form theoretical model shows nutrient intakes as a function of wages, market prices, and non-labor income5.