 Finalization of all books is done in-house, which includes index making, checking of preliminary pages (Contents, Preface, Foreword, About the Author, About the Book), and all text from printing point of view. Article certificates and Copyright certificates (books) are maintained in EEU. Editorials; ‘About the Author’ and ‘About the Book’ for books; ‘Overview’ and ‘Foreword’ pertaining to ICAR Annual Report; Preface for handbooks; Index in all Handbooks, books and Annual Report, Subject-wise index, Author index and List of reviewers in both the research journals were prepared. The ICAR flagship Hindi monthly journal Kheti and PUBLICATIONS, SOCIAL MEDIA AND PUBLIC RELATIONS Indian Farming Indian Horticulture Issues published 12 Articles published 180 Total submissions 380 Registered users 5,610 State-wise distribution of published articles State-wise distribution of published articles Issues published 6 Articles published 76 Total submissions 148 Registered users 3,710 ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 205 PUBLICATIONS, SOCIAL MEDIA AND PUBLIC RELATIONS Global visibility of ICAR research The Directorate is showcasing ICAR technologies, policies and other activities through print, electronic and web mode. The editorial units help in development of content in value added information products in print, electronic and web mode. The ICAR periodicals are hosted on http://epubs.icar.org.in. This site is connected to Google analytics that provides reports on user flow on this portal. bi-monthly horticulture journal Phalphul published 18 issues. During the reported period 4 special issues of Kheti were published namely ‘Pashu Aahar Visheshank’ and ‘Dalhan par Vishesh Samagri’, ‘Matsyiki Visheshank’ and ‘Sasya Vigyan Congress Visheshank’. Similarly three special issues of Phalphul namely ‘Phal Sabji Prasanskaran’, ‘Paudh Nursery’ and ‘Videshi Evam Alpdohit Bagwani Fasal Visheshank’ were published. The purpose of these special issues is to compile and make available latest information about a particular subject in a very comprehensive manner for the benefit of readers. Apart from journals a booklet Ullekhniya Uplabdhian (2014-2023): Amritkal mein Viksit Bharat ki Akanchha ke Saath Badhte Kadam was also published. Production Unit Production Unit, DKMA is solely responsible for the designing, print-production of the Council’s Scientific Research Journals, Semi-technical periodicals, Magazines, Newsletters, Books, Monographs, Handbooks, Technical Bulletins, Textbooks, Annual Reports, Research Highlights, Proceedings and other print materials using modern and latest print-production technology. During this period, a number of important publications: ICAR Significant Achievements 2014- 2023, 9 Saal Seva Sushasan aur Garib Kalyan, Cheese Technology, Watershed Hydrology, etc. along with Council’s Scientific Research Journals (24 issues), Semi- technical periodicals (12 issues), Magazines (26 issues), Newsletters (4 issues) were also produced.