 HYV Rice: Improved rice variety Tamphaphou (CAU R-1) is high yielding, tolerant to Rice blast and Bacterial blight, the variety withstands rice gall midge and stem borer infestations to a considerable extent. High performance under low applied fertilizer level of NPK (60:40:20) per ha. Suitable for late sowing up to July end. Net return is Rs. 37, 500/- [Validated by KVK, East Siang, Arunachal Pradesh]. vi. Poly culture of Fish: Poly culture of Indian Major Carps (Rohu, Catla and Mrigel) with Exotic carp (Grass carp, Silver carp and Common carp) for better utilization of food and ecological niches is adopted by the farmers of East Siang district of Arunachal Pradesh. The technology has benefited the farmers with B:C ratio of 2.29 [Validated by KVK, East Siang, Arunachal Pradesh]. vii. Mixed cultivation of fruit crops (orange, pineapple, banana): A farmer of adopted intensive cropping system, high density system and inter cropping system for mixed cultivation of fruit crops and established a Khasi mandarin orchard in 1 ha area of land, intercropping with high density pineapple and banana. He is marketing 1500 – 2000 pineapple fruits @ Rs. 20 per fruit, 30-50 banana bunch @ Rs. 200 – 300 per bunch every year from this orchard besides the earning from the mandarin trees. His annual earning annually Rs. 1,50,000/- from 2.0 ha. He has expanded his farm size and cultivating pineapple in 2.0 ha and large cardamom in 2.0 ha area [Validated by KVK, Papum Pare, Arunachal Pradesh]. viii. Dairy based entrepreneurship: A farmer from Tura, started a diary unit with 3 cows after taking loan from the bank. After initial success, he upgraded his dairy unit with 18 milking cows, 6 heifers, 10 calves and one bull and one-hectare fodder production farm. Additionally, he constructed a vermicomposting pit for preparation of vermicomposting from animal excreta and farmyard refusal. His annual net income is Rs. 8,51,250/- from his dairy unit. [Validated by KVK, Tura, Meghalaya]. 2.4 Summary Recommendations: Aiming to double the farmers’ income for Arunachal Pradesh by 2022, the state has the potential because of its diverse geo-climatic conditions and biodiversity. A transformation from the traditional jhuming with mono-cropping towards diversified multi-cropping agriculture using high yielding varieties is the required to enhance the agri-production. The livestock rearing is the strength of the state, but the milk production is deficient as per the State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 43 requirement. Dairying has high profit potential; hence, low yielding local livestock need to be upgraded with the introduction of elite milch breeds. The piggery and poultry need to be promoted for enhancing the production to meet the meat requirements of the inhabitants. Lack of post-harvest storage and processing along with the poor infra-structure facilities in the state is directly affecting the agri-value chain development and marketing.