 yy Daily observe all animals for abnormal behaviour or other signs of disease. yy Begin treatment quickly whenever diseases are detected. Cattle diseases prevalent in India The following cattle diseases have been identified as important endemic diseases in India. Therefore a regular vaccination programme, parasite control programme and prophylactic measures are important against these diseases. yy Foot and mouth disease yy Haemorrhagic septicaemia yy Black quarter 26 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS yy Anthrax yy Enterotoxaemia yy Cow pox yy Brucellosis yy Rabies yy Parasitic diseases (fascioliasis, amphistomiasis, schistosomiasis) yy Protozoan diseases (babesiosis, theileriosis, anaplasmosis, trypanosomiasis, coccidiosis) yy Tuberculosis yy Mange infestations yy Mastitis Signs and symptoms of common cattle diseases yy Abnormal gait and posture of the animal yy Loss of appetite yy Stoppage of rumination yy Rough dry skin yy Dry muzzle and nostrils with sunken eyes yy Variations in body temperature yy Variation in pulse and respiration rate yy Incidence of diarrhoea or constipation yy Abnormal colour and odour of urine yy Reproductive problems yy Loss in body weight yy Presence of external and internal parasites yy Respiratory problems and coughing etc. Vaccination protocol A standard vaccination schedule appropriate for cows in India is given below. All these vaccines are commercially available. 27 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS Disease Vaccine Dose Immunity Time Foot & mouth diseases (FMD) Polyvalent FMD vaccine 3 ml. S/C 1 Year 1st vaccination at 3 months of age. Repeat as per vaccine used. Hemorrhagic septicemia (HS) HS vaccine 5 ml S/C 6 month to 1 Year 1st vaccination at 6 months of age. Repeat yearly in May-June Black quarter (BQ) BQ vaccine 5 ml S/C 6 month to 1 Year 1st vaccination at 6 months of age. Repeat yearly in May-June Anthrax Anthrax spore vaccine 1 ml S/C 1 Year 1st vaccination at 6 months of age. Repeat yearly in May-June Brucella S-19 vaccine 5 ml S/C 2 Years Female cattle calf aged 4-8 months only Rabies Rabies post bite vaccine 1 ml S/C 1 Year 0, 3, 7, 14, 28 and 90 days (post bite vaccination) Vaccination against rabies For rabies, post exposure vaccination is recommended at 0, 3, 7, 14, 28 and 90 days. For example, if it is suspected that a cow has been bitten by a dog, this vaccination course can be started as a preventive approach. If a cow is bitten by a dog that is confirmed to have rabies (e.g. by physical symptoms), the post exposure vaccine course should be started immediately. Parasite control yy External parasites can be controlled by using ectoparasiticides in the form of spray and injections. Protozoan diseases mostly occur during summer or rainy season when ticks have higher activity. Therefore, control of ecto- parasites during that season is important.