 Each sausage weighing approximately150-200g was packed in flexible low-density polyethylene pouches and stored at refrigerated temperature. MRSA clone identified from seafood and aquatic environment: Staphylococcal protein A (spa) typing of a methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) clone identified from seafood and aquatic environment of Kerala was assigned a new clone status t15669. This clone was identified by amplification and sequencing of whole spa gene. A molecular source tracking study conducted in the seafood production chain from landing centre to retail market revealed that seafood get contaminated with MRSA from environment and is transmitted to the retail fish markets. ❑ 11. Agricultural Human Resource Development Agricultural Education Division of the ICAR undertook various activities for strengthening and quality assurance of State Agricultural Universities (62 SAUs), Deemed- to-be-Universities (5 DUs) and Central Universities (4 CUs) with Agricultural faculties under the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) to address the challenges of agricultural growth and upgrading quality of higher agricultural education. The Division, through the implementation of Scheme-Strengthening and Development of Higher Agricultural Education in India, assists the AUs to plan, undertake, aid, promote and coordinate agricultural education in the country. The scheme has enabled these institutions in building excellence in specific strategic areas in education and research through Niche Area of Excellence (NAE), promoting holistic higher agricultural education by blending knowledge, skill and attitude through Experiential Learning Units, RAWE, and related aspects concerning infrastructural development, gender mainstreaming and capacity building of the students with the total outlay of ` 358.00 crore. Infrastructural support In the XII Plan, a total of 17 girls, 6 boys and 5 international hostels, 6 examination halls and 3 auditoriums were supported in 24AUs.The infusion of development grant continued during the year for renovation and refurbishing of structures, purchase of new equipments, maintenance of equipment, support of the practical manuals leading to improvement in conducting practical classes in important areas of agriculture and allied sciences. For increasing awareness in latest techniques and research in cutting edge areas support was provided for student and faculty amenities/ tours/capacity building and participation in seminars, symposia, workshops etc. With the support from Council the AUs initiated short courses/workshops/lectures on overall personality development leadership programmes as well as spoken English. The support for major and minor repair/ renovation and refurbishing of structures, overall strengthening of infrastructure in AUs, maintenance of major equipments, student and faculty amenities, etc. continued during the year. Support was also provided for student health, and developing facilities for sports.