 Higher green pea (pod) yield (17.9 t/ha) was observed in -30 kPa SMP threshold with 120% of recommended dose of fertilizer treatment whereas the average yield of green pea in India is 7–11 t/ha. Lower yield was observed in I4 treatment with 80% RDF through fertigation. The low frequency of water application in I4 treatment led to uneven distribution of moisture content which hampered the absorbance of water and nutrients by the root system. Statistical analysis of yield parameter showed that irrigation treatments and fertigation treatments effects were significant at 1% level with the CD value of 0.32. The depth of irrigation water applied through drip irrigation system was 163 mm (effective rainfall 26 mm and irrigation water applied 137 mm) whereas the depth of water applied in surface irrigation Microplastics in agri-inputs on soil-plant attributes: Durum and bread wheat were exposed to leaf compost (LC) and vermicompost (VC) enriched with polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and polypropylene (PP) and the response in terms of plant growth and nutrient availability and uptake was deciphered. Study clearly shows that microplastics in the farm inputs will alter the nutrient availability and uptake. Generation of spatio-temporal crop environment and composite crop health indices from satellite remote sensing and dissemination through web Geoportal: Satellite based crop health indices such as Vegetation Condition Index, Temperature Condition icar annual report 2022-23 93 was 304 mm. It was concluded that there was a water saving of 44–50% in real time soil moisture based irrigation schedule than the surface irrigation practice. Post emergence herbicide for weed control in chickpea: The impact of Post herbicides available in different crops were assessed in chickpea at ICAR-IIPR, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh and thereafter in AICRP on chickpea. Topramezone @20.6 ml a.i./ ha at 14–21 DAS had higher weed control efficiency (up to 90%). It significantly controlled the dominant broad-leaved weeds: Chenopodium album, Lepidium didymum, Spergula arvensis, Medicago polymorpha and Fumaria parviflora Lam. compared to the other tested herbicides. Topramezone increased 15–20% chickpea seed yield than the recommended herbicide pendimethalin 1,000 g a.i/ha, quizalofop-p-ethyl 100 g a.i./ha. Hence, topramezone can be recommended as selective post-emergence herbicide in chickpea for managing broad-spectrum weeds and realizing higher productivity. Agronomic bio-fortification in chickpea: Agronomic management strategies to improve grain yield and grain Zn concentration in chickpea through use of different Zn-application methods like soil, foliar and seed treatments which are simple, efficient and cost- effective for farmers were studied for two consecutive years (2020–21 and 2021–22). Foliar spray at 0.5% ZnSO4 (sprayed at the pre-flowering and pod formation stage) is reported to have higher seed zinc content of 65 to 75 ppm and was 20 to 25% higher when compared to control.