 The potential area for sesame was identified in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and West Bengal. Suitability for oil palm cultivation in Andhra Pradesh, pomegranate in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh was evaluated. Soil suitability evaluation for cotton, wheat, mustard and cluster bean was done for Odhan block, Sirsa district, Haryana, while soil suitability maps were delineated for commercial crops, i.e. coffee and coconut in Bilalgodu microwatershed of Chikkamagaluru district; rubber in Elamdesam, Idukki district; 7 principal crops for the watershed of Shidlaiahanakote village, Chitradurga district, Karnataka. HDPE embedded gabion structures: A technological intervention using HDPE embedded gabion structures was established in drainage channels for harvesting runoff and maintaining base flow and reducing sediment loss. In watersheds, loose boulder structures or gabion check dams are constructed in upper reaches to stabilize the gully or stream and reduce the flow velocity and, thereby, minimizing the soil erosion. The gabion structures were embedded with 1 mm HDPE film at the centre of the structure. These plastic embedded structures were constructed and evaluated in the farmers’ fields/ watershed areas of the project cluster. These plastic film embedded gabion structures reduced the sediment concentration by 70% over the traditional gabion check dams which do not use plastic films. It was able to store water ranging between 9,000–15,000 m3, raised watertable in wells by 0.6 m, impacted by provision of irrigation in area of 1 ha. Subsurface drip irrigation for sugarcane cultivation: Evaluation of subsurface drip irrigation on yield of salt tolerant sugarcane in saline vertisols at Agricultural Research Station, Gangavathi revealed higher cane yield (131 t/ha) in subsurface drip followed by surface drip method (124.4 t/ha) and least in furrow irrigation (105 t/ha) method. Among irrigation levels, significantly higher yield (124.7 t/ha) was recorded at 1.2 ET irrigation level followed by 1 ET (121 t/ha) and least in case of 0.8 ET (114.7 t/ha). The interaction effect between irrigation methods and levels was non- significant. Among irrigation methods, significantly higher water use efficiency (WUE) of 83 kg/ha/mm was recorded in subsurface drip irrigation followed by surface drip (78.6 kg/ha/mm) and least in furrow irrigation (66.4 kg/ha/mm) methods. Among irrigation levels, significantly higher WUE (83.2 kg/ha/mm) was recorded at 0.8 ET followed by 1 ET (75.9 kg/ha/mm) and least in case of 1.2 ET (68.9 kg/ha/mm). The sugar water use efficiency (S- WUE) was calculated based on brix percentage, yield and total water applied. In case of irrigation methods, significantly higher S-WUE was recorded in subsurface drip irrigation (1.72 kg/m3) followed by surface drip irrigation (1.59 kg/m3) and least in furrow irrigation (1.34 kg/m3) method. Among irrigation levels, significantly higher S-WUE was recorded at 0.8 ET (1.66 kg/m3) followed by 1 ET (1.