 Temperature is one of the key climatic factors having profound effect on the growth and development of this crop. The soil temperatures in farmers’ field in India and Africa commonly exceed 45°C and the temperatures rise as high as 60°C occasionally. In India, about 25% of the pearl millet area falls in the arid zone designated as A1 zone which comprises of parts of Rajasthan, Gujarat and Haryana receiving less than 400 mm annual rainfall. This region experiences extended dry spells, drought, heat waves and soil temperatures in farmers’ fields are reported to exceed 45°C often. The cultivars suitable for cultivation in the arid zone should have early maturity (75 days of crop cycle), high tillering, good grain as well as fodder yields. Several hybrids are available for cultivation in the arid conditions, however, under extremely arid situations and where the land is poor, farmers prefer traditional landraces that have better quality over improved cultivars and use them for consumption. The OPV CZP 9802 is the outcome of landrace-based breeding and responds well to drought as well as favourable conditions. Pearl millet is also resilient to reproductive stage heat stress. The spectacular ability of this crop to endure high temperatures up to 42°C even during reproductive phase also makes it suitable as a summer crop in northern Gujarat, eastern Uttar Pradesh and parts of Rajasthan. The hybrids such as GHB 526, GHB 183, GHB 558 are suitable for summer grown conditions. Resilience of pearl millet to low moisture and poor soil fertility Pearl millet has a deep root system which helps it to tolerate water scarcity. It wades through drought by enhancing its root length and maintaining high leaf water status. Good water status in root tissues also helps in proper nutrient acquisition. It can grow in low nutrient soil with minimum dependence on chemical fertilizers due to its high photosynthetic efficiency, superior dry matter production capacity and excellent productivity. Pearl millet belongs to the group of C4 plants that are more efficient in fixing atmospheric CO2 and utilizing water effectively. Moreover, there is substantial deposition of cuticular wax in pearl millet leaves which reduces transpiration water loss and helps in reflecting radiation thereby contributing to heat and drought tolerance of the crop. Its unique ability to yield good economic returns even in poor and marginal soils and harsh environmental conditions makes it a crop of choice for the arid and semi-arid regions of the world. MBC 2, improved open-pollinated variety of pearl millet. Released in 2011; Grain yield, 1.5 t/ha; Dry fodder yield, 4.2 t/ha; Maturity, 77 days; Resistant to downy mildew; Tolerant to drought. RHB 223, hybrid variety of pearl millet. Released in 2018; Grain yield, 2.7 t/ha; Dry fodder yield, 7.5 t/ha; Maturity, 77 days; Resistant to downy mildew; Tolerant to drought.