2%) which categorizes it as a biofortified wheat variety. DBW 316 has other quality attributes such as high bread loaf volume and bread quality score, high chapatti quality score, high sedimentation value and good grain appearance. High end-use quality with biofortified value and high yield potential make DBW316 a suitable variety for boosting farm economy, food and nutritional security of the country. Keywords: Biofortification, Climate resilience, DBW 316, Grain protein, Heat tolerance I ndia is the second largest producer of wheat globally and in 2023, country is aiming for more than 112 million tonnes of wheat production i.e. 5% higher than last year. The rice-wheat system in India’s Indo-Gangetic Plains (IGP) is one of the most important cropping systems in the world. Major wheat growing states of wheat in India are Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, and Bihar. Total wheat area of India is divided into 5 agro-ecological zones namely; North-Western Plains Zone (NWPZ), North-Eastern Plains Zone (NEPZ), Central Zone (CZ), Peninsular Zone (PZ). Several wheat breeding programmes in India are working to develop improved cultivars for these agro-ecological zones, and candidate genotypes with the potential to be released to farmers are assessed across the country in coordinated multi- Indian Farming 73 (09): 18-20; September 2023 location trials under AICRP wheat. Wheat is a sensitive crop to weather, making it regionally vulnerable to climate change and fluctuation. Despite the long-established advantages of sowing wheat by November 15th, many farmers throughout the NEPZ, especially those in the eastern IGP, sow their wheat crop later than recommended time. Terminal heat tolerance is a very important trait for enhanced grain filling, in all wheat growing situations, particularly under late sowing conditions of areas like eastern India. This issue has been addressed through developing climate resilient wheat varieties. Indian Farming 19 September 2023 Some characteristic features of DBW 316 Various studies have shown that there is genetic variability for terminal heat tolerance. A tall wheat variety C 306 developed by using indigenous germplasm in 1960s has excellent adaptation for heat prone areas. In last five decades several wheat varieties have been released for cultivation in NEPZ. DBW 316 (Karan Prema) is a latest wheat variety developed for late sown irrigated conditions of this zone. Salient features of DBW316 Varieties intended for the North- eastern plains of India should be disease-resistant and tolerant to terminal heat in addition to having a high grain yield potential. Terminal heat stress affects wheat particularly the late sown crop when the mean temperature during the grain filling stage goes above 31°C. Besides this, the variety should perform better in the farmer’s field, with agronomic and quality superiority.