 Current status Currently, the successful farmer (Jasbir Singh) has experience of 7 years in organic farming and is a well known progressive farmer in his locality. He is practicing natural farming in his whole land (5 hectares). Now he grows all major crops (wheat, paddy, sugarcane, legume crops) in his fields. Knowing the importance of mixed cropping, he grows chana and wheat as a mixed crop in rabi season. He is also practicing apiculture and livestock to increase the economic status of his family. Agronomical practices Managing the crops without any inorganic input is a very difficult task for a farmer now a days, because crops as well as soil have become used to the inorganic substances and even starts resistance against inorganic insecticides and pesticides. But Jasbir Singh put all his efforts to manage his crops with various natural methods to protect the crop from pests, diseases and also to get maximum yield. He prepares several products at his farm which are mainly prepared from the cow dung, urine and also some processed product from cow milk such as buttermilk. Nutrient management: Proper nutrient management is followed by him. He uses self prepared farm yard manure and Panchagavya. He also prepares Jeevamrut and Ghan jeevamrut for the improvement of pH of soil as well as soil nutrients (micro and macro nutrients). Jasbir Singh also prepares Gokrupa amrutam which is prepared by mixture of buttermilk and jaggery in water. It is one of the best natural sources to maintain the beneficial bacterial population in the soil. Insect and pest management: Mainly he prepares the liquid mixture of garlic, neem extract and camphor to control the pest in the field. He also sprays the cow urine in order to control the insect population. Disease management: According to Jasbir Singh, he faced problem of Panchagavya Jeevamrut Gokrupa amrutam Indian Farming 41 May 2023 diseases for initial two years after switching to natural farming. After 2–3 years of continuing natural farming, rate of crop diseases started decreasing gradually. He also uses the technique of disease escape by changing the sowing dates of the crops. At present, he is not facing any major crop disease in his fields. Weed management: He follows cultural method as well as mechanical methods to control the weeds. To reduce the weed population, he does crop rotation and also does hand weeding to manage the weeds in the fields. Jasbir Singh has good extension contacts with agricultural departments such as KVKs, Agricultural officers and also has contact with other natural progressive farmers. He always stays updated in terms of new innovations and inputs used in natural farming due to which he is able to manage all the agronomical practices in a proper way. Output Jasbir Singh is the only farmer in his locality who is engaged in natural farming and is a well known trusted farmer. Now, he sells all his major crops like wheat, alsi, potato, legume crops from his own farm.