 The review included papers published in journals and book chapters and publicly accessible grey literature (newspaper/ magazine articles, reports, working papers, policy briefs/policy reviews, conference proceedings, government-issued press notes, and policy documents published by the Government of India (GoI)). Each piece was screened on the basis of its title/abstract and only relevant literature was reviewed fully. Care was taken to ensure we captured policies and programs at the central government and at the state levels. Gujarat is a large state on the western coast of India. The economy of Gujarat is the fourth largest in the country, characterized by high level of industrialization. In terms of social indicators, it is ranked 23 out of 34 Indian states and Union territories according to the 2021 Human Development Index2. Women comprise 48% of the state’s population; it has one of the lowest sex ratios in the country. Like much of India, a significant share of Gujarat’s population (63%) is engaged in, and dependent on, agriculture and related activities as a source of livelihood. However, agriculture forms only 15–19% of the state’s gross domestic product. Gujarat is an agriculturally diverse state and a major producer of food and cash crops. Primary food crops include rice, wheat, maize, and millet. Cash crops cover a significant proportion of net sown area in Gujarat, primary among which are cotton, groundnut, sugarcane, and cumin. Dairy and livestock rearing are another important livelihood source, as Gujarat is the birthplace of India’s dairy cooperative move­ ment (National Dairy Development Board, 2013; Das, 2014). The state falls in the sub-tropical climate zone and summer temperatures vary between 25 ◦C and 450C while winter temperature ranges between 15 ◦C and 35 ◦C. The monsoon season usually lasts between June to September, with average annual rainfall varying from 300 mm in the arid and semi-arid zones in the north-western part of the state to 2100 mm in the southern parts of the state that experience sub-humid climate (Government of Gujarat, 2023). However, in recent years, a warming trend has been observed for the state along with an increasing trend in intensity and frequency of extreme rainfall events (Dave et al., 2017). These changes in climatic conditions have resulted in significant impacts on Gujarat’s agricultural productivity in recent times (Aryal et al., 2020). Recent studies have shown that increased temperature and changing rainfall patterns have resulted in lower yields for cotton, groundnut, wheat, and millets to name a few (Mallappa and Pathak, 2023). In the western part of Gujarat, which is increasingly drought-prone and dependent on mon­ soons—monocropping is still the norm and access to irrigation is low. In these locations, extreme climate risks pose a serious threat to the live­ lihoods of farmers who may not have access to the infrastructure needed to protect their crops.