 In a large number of avocado cultivars, identification of the optimum harvesting stage is very difficult due to its peak climacteric nature and absence of visible phenotypic changes at matured stage. However, in some cultivars, optimum maturity is indicated by changes in fruit surface colour and dropping of few fruits naturally from the trees. However, these are not considered scientific methods to harvest avocado fruits. Hence, knowing the flowering behaviour and stage of optimum maturity is most important for avocado farmers to harvest fruits at the right stage of maturity and to get more profit. Vittal Kamble1* and C K Narayana2 A VOCADO (Persea americana Mill.) is an important commodity in the international fruit trade. There are three distinct races of avocado (Mexican, Guatemalan and West Indian), that vary in their shape, size and fat content. These are sometimes categorized as subtropical, semi-tropical and tropical. Earlier in India, avocado was grown mainly as a backyard crop in the states of Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and coastal Maharashtra. From the recent past, Indian farmers have shown more interest in the commercial cultivation of avocado due to its high demand in the market. However, not much information is available to farmers regarding avocado flowering and the stages of fruit growth and development to harvest at proper stage of maturity. Avocado flowers are different from flowers of other fruit crops. They open twice a day which encourages cross pollination between Type A and Type B cultivars. Identification of proper horticultural maturity is difficult in avocado as its maturity is not quantifiable by changes in external appearance. Thus, it is difficult to judge in advance whether fruit has matured satisfactorily or not. However, several studies have been conducted for the identification of maturity indices in avocado fruit. As a result, some attributes like fruit colour, Technology weight, volume, oil content and dry matter have been recommended as measurable indices to identify maturity. Additional information on its maturity can be obtained from biochemical studies. A mature avocado is one that has attained acceptable stage so that, when picked from plant it will ripen to edible condition with satisfactory taste and flavour specific to the cultivar. Avocado cultivation in India Avocado cultivation in India is gaining popularity and is mainly concentrated in the southern and western parts of the country, where the climate is more suitable for avocado trees. The most common avocado variety grown in India is the Hass avocado, known for its creamy texture and rich flavour. Other varieties are also cultivated depending on the specific region and climatic conditions. Recently, ICAR- Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, regional station, IIHR- CHES, Chettalli, has released two avocado varieties viz. Arka Supreme and Arka Coorg Ravi for commercial cultivation in India.