 Therefore, ICAR-CPRI developed a programmed air mist-based potato culturing technique based on aeroponics technology. It shortens the span of quality seed production by 2 years. The aeroponic system technology has revolutionized potato seed industry in the country. The institute has licensed this technology to several private firms like Shekhon Biotech, Bhatti Farms, Sandhu Farms, Siddhi Vinayak Agri, Sun Grow Seeds etc., to produce one million mini-tubers by aeroponic system. After four successive multiplications, it shall make available 70,400 tons of seed potatoes in addition to the conventional system. 3.2.3. Improved processing varieties of horticultural crops Total post-harvest losses in fruits and vegetables as per the recent ICAR studies ranges from 6 to 16% (excluding losses in retailing). Presently, only 2.2% of fruits and vegetables are processed in the country. India’s exports of processed fruits and vegetables were Rs. 7,373.77 crores in 2018-19 (APEDA) suggesting a huge potential in future. Thus, processing sector is being seen as a game changer to reduce post-harvest losses, for Indian Agriculture after Independence 128 price stabilization, value addition and to tap foreign markets. ICAR has been working to develop varieties that are suitable for processing in various crops. Recently two hybrids of tomato (Arka Apeksha and Arka Visesh) suitable for ketchup and paste; onion variety Arka Yogith suitable for dehydration; potato variety Kufri Frysona suitable for French fries; turmeric variety IISR Pragati for cucurmin extraction; pomegranate variety Solapur Anardana suitable for anardana preparation; grape variety Manjari Medika suitable for juice making have been developed. Demand for processing quality potato increased from 0.97 to 2.68 million tons during 2005-06 to 2010-11. Potato farmers are estimated to have earned additional Rs. 342 crores during these five years because of growing processing potatoes. Gross and net income for Kufri Chipsona 1 was higher than the average of potato farm by 22 and 30%, respectively and the benefit-cost ratio of Kufri Chipsona 1 was 1.91, while it was 1.61 for the average of all potato varieties grown on the farmers’ fields in UP. Kufri Frysona variety has strengthened the French fries chain in collaboration with M/s. McCain’s Food India Pvt. Ltd., Gujarat. 3.3. Flower crops 3.3.1. Arka Prajwal, a high yielding tuberose variety ICAR-IIHR has developed this high yielding single floret type variety possessing white flowers with pinkish tinge on buds. The individual flowers are bolder compared to local single variety. The average loose flower yield of this hybrid is 17 t ha-1 year-1 and is about 49% higher than the existing local variety. The flowers have a better shelf-life (7 days) compared to other varieties (4 days). It is a dual-purpose variety for both loose and cut flower. It has great potential and demand in market as loose flower, cut flower and for concrete extraction.