 The provision of subsidies on buying seeds, fertilizers, and pesticides for practicing sus- tainable agriculture showed a statistically signiﬁcant and negative rela- tionship with the adoption of SAPs, implying that subsidy is ineffective towards the adoption of SAPs by farmers. The results are also supported by Gautam (2015), who stated the misuse of subsidies in the past by Indian farmers due to overutilization of groundwater and fertilizers, resulting in depleting water depth and soil moisture. Bopp et al. (2019), also found a negative association of subsidies with the adoption of sus- tainable practices by farmers in the Chile region of South America. Local level government in Vidarbha and Marathwada regions of Maharashtra provided incentives in the form of higher selling prices, irrigation water at less cost, less transportation cost of crops from ﬁeld to market and higher priority of the crops in the market grown via sustainable practices. Incentive showed statistically signiﬁcant and negative association with institutional factors, which is further negatively related to the adoption of SAPs (Fig. 4). It implies that incentives prove to be beneﬁcial policy in- struments for moving towards sustainable agriculture. This is also sup- ported by Aryal et al. (2018), which states that incentivizing the farmers is very important for motivating them for uptake of sustainable practices. Provision of soft loans i.e., loans at less interest rates and lower lines of credit showed a negative and statistically insigniﬁcant relationship with the adoption of SAPs. It is because farmers prefer to spend the loan amount on other activities such as marriage and the education of children rather than sustainability, which is also supported by Swami and Par- thasarathy (2020). Extension services i.e., workshops, seminars, and capacity-building programs on sustainability encouraged farmers to follow SAPs, which is in line with the ﬁndings by Usman et al. (2021) and Priyadarshini and Abhilash (2020). The study found that access to extension services helps in building trust and increasing knowledge and awareness of farmers by demonstrating sustainable practices on the ground. 3.4. Limitations of this study A few limitations of this study are: i) ﬁndings are based on the survey done in 18 villages of two districts of Maharashtra, India, and thereby, cannot be extrapolated for the entire country. ii) The independent vari- ables (variables measuring behavioural and institutional factors) are measured in the binary form (Yes/No), rather than the ordinal (1–5), which may result in interpretational biases. iii) The study solely focussed on understanding the impact of behavioural and institutional factors and did not consider the demographic characteristics of farmers i.e., their age, education, experience, social capital and economic capital. Thereby, the results may suffer from omitted variable bias.