 Description (Background) - Materials and methods The DO monitoring system helps to sense DO level present in water by using a DO sensor and switch a connected aerator on and off in case of any stress situation. The control box consists of microcontroller, signal conditioner and other small electronic components which converts the signal to numeric DO value and displays on local display device as well as uploads the data to the cloud sever which is dedicated for the system. The cloud server stores and displays the data on website which is accessible on PC or mobile device. On the same time the system controls the aerator to manage the stress situation. A set point of DO is set in the system according to which the connected aerator is turned on or off. When DO level goes below TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 107 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 108 threshold level, the system signals the aerator to start its operation. Once DO level reaches to the desirable level, again signal goes to the aerator to stop its operation. - Country specifics (Including geographical location) In the recent past, Indian fisheries has witnessed a paradigm shift from marine dominated fisheries to inland fisheries, with the latter emerging as a major contributor of fish production in India. Within inland fisheries, a shift from capture to culture-based fisheries has paved the way for sustained blue economy. But, in capture fisheries, the development in terms of its production potential is yet to be realized. In this context, the advance technology of ICT, automation and sensors can play a major role in achieving this production potential. The present IoT based automated DO monitoring system is suitable for any cultured fisheries system specially in fish farming states of India like UP, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, WB, Odisha, AP, Telangana etc. to improve the water quality for the fish survival. -Process flow diagram The process flow diagram indicates the process involved in the DO monitoring system for managing the DO level in the waterbody. DO sensor is placed in the water tank or waterbody. The sensor is connected to the controller box. In the controller box, the DO data is analyzed, processed and converted into computer understandable language. Then the system sends the data to the cloud server which is kept dedicated for the system via. Internet. The Internet connected through Wi-Fi. On the same time the system controls the aerator whenever there is a drop of dissolve oxygen in the water. Fig 1 Process flow diagram of the system Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report threshold level, the system signals the aerator to start its operation. Once DO level reaches to the desirable level, again signal goes to the aerator to stop its operation.