 Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 3503 Prediction of drought by observing flowering in bamboo Whenever bamboo flowers, farmers of villages Gourangatilla and Teliamura of West Tripura consider that in the coming period there will be severe drought. A bamboo stem reaches to full maturity in 60-70 years, and some bamboo plants flower at maturity whereas others do not. Accordingly, as per the flowering intensity, the farmers decide the intensity of the drought to get ready for coping with drought and planning for proper cropping strategy. Keywords: flowering in bamboo, drought, cropping strategy Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Content 14 Weather Forecasting Code No. Title of the 1TK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3499 Kerda (Capparis decidua) flowers as rainfall indicator 1500 Prediction of rainfall by observing ring in the sky 501 Rainfall prediction through direction of lightning Kerda flowers are used as an indicator of rainfall. Farmers of Bhavnagar, Surendranagar and Kheda districts of Gujarat consider that when the kerda (Capparis decidua) plants produce more number of flowers and fruits, it is assumed that there will be severe drought in the coming year. Colour of flowers is also helpful for the farmers to decide the cropping strategies in advance. When bright orange-colour flowers are produced, drought prevails during rainy season for a longer time. When greenish yellow to orange flowers are produced, there will be drought for 20 or 30 days and after that some showers may be received. Little amount of flowers with greenish yellow colour shows sufficient amount of rainfall during the year. Keywords: kerda flower, rainfall indicator When a ring is formed around the moon, the farmers make prediction about rain. When ring is near to moon, it is an indication that the rain is far away. When ring is distant from moon, it indicates that there will be rain soon within I or 2 days. Keywords: moon, ring When lightning starts from north-east to east direction and shines up to the south-east, it is forecast that rain is about to come. When there is lightning in other directions, there is no possibility of rain. Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri D. C. Pant, Agaion, Didihat, Pithoragarh (Uttaranchal) Shri M.S. Bagdwal, Kunj-Bargal, Bhaisiyachhana, Alrnora (Uttaranchal) Content 15 Waste-Water Management Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No.