 RECRUITMENT RULES AND SERVICE RULES Eight proposals were received during 2000-2001 for framing/amendment of Recruitment Rules, and decisions taken were communicated to the ICAR in respect of Legal Advisor, ICAR; Deputy Secretary, ICAR; Studio Attendant G-D4; Record Keeper (Grade-C); Lower Division Clerks Examination Grade C; File Attendant; and Technical Officer. ASSESSMENT, REVIEW OF ASSESSMENT AND INDUCTION IN THE ARS No proposal for Assessment under ARS rules was received during the year relating to Scientists Grade S-I. Four cases of induction relating to Scientists, and Research Management Positions were considered during the year and recommendations were sent to the ICAR. One proposal for review of assessment result was considered during the year. USE OF HINDI ● Adequate arrangements were made to promote progressive use of Hindi in the office of the Board. To ensure compliance of Official Language Policy of the Central Government/ICAR and to fulfil the target fixed in the annual official language programme, a Technical Officer in Group B service is exclusively attending to the related work. ● About 58.2% of Officers and 75.6% staff working in the Board have acquired working knowledge of Hindi. ● Representative of the Board participates in the quarterly meeting of the Official Language Imple-mentation Committee of the ICAR headquarters where the progress made in the use of Hindi in the official work of the Board is reviewed. ● Examination rules, notice, syllabi, instructions to candidates, admission certificate, test booklets, answer sheets, application forms, attendance sheets and attendance lists, etc. were printed both in English and Hindi simultaneously. ● All the advertisements issued by the Board were prepared and published both in Hindi and English in the leading newspapers of the country including Rozgar Samachar. ● Hindi version of this annual report of the Board is also being published. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 222 8. 8. 8. 8. 8. Publications and Information Publications and Information Publications and Information Publications and Information Publications and Information Dissemination of latest information to the farmers on the new crop varieties released and the new technologies developed in the field of agriculture and related subjects is the prime task of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. Keeping this in view, the ICAR brings out a number of periodicals i.e. newsletters, bulletins, brochures and reports through the Directorate of Information and Publications of Agriculture. The publications brought out by the DIPA are of high standard both in quality and content and cater not only to the needs of the farming community but also students, extension workers, progressive farmers and the general public. The DIPA is now giving more thrust on electronic publishing. It has also created a database and has developed digital publication of documents.