70 (N=3) Group II 7.2ą2.5 7.85ą2.05 8.7ą2.5 8.4ą2.4 8.25ą2.25 8.5ą2.7 7.85ą2.35 (N=2) P>0.05 between days as well as groups. creation of fracture and coaption of limb on day 0 showed the presence of a clear radiolucent line of fracture in the proximal diaphysis of ulna in all the animals of both the groups (Fig. 2a). In the group treated with manu this radiolucent fracture line turned hazy toward transcortical aspect of ulna at fracture site in the day 15 radiographs. However there were no radiographic signs of development of periosteal callus at this stage. In the day 30 radiographs, the development of periosteal callus was clear as a small radio- opaque area, extending beyond the caudal margin VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY of ulna at the fracture site The radiolucency of fracture line further decreased in the cis-cortex, but it could not be ditected in trans-cortex. The medullary cavity at the fracture site became more radiolucent (Fig. 2b). In the radiographs taken on day 45, no radiolucent fracture line was visible and the fracture gap was completely filled. The medullary continuity at the fracture site also resembled its almost normal radiographic appearance. The amount of endosteal and periosteal callus was also reduced (Fig. 2c). By day 60, the remodeling process of callus was in advanced stage, as evident by further reduction in its size (Fig. 2d). In the animals of control group, the radiographs taken up to day 30 showed clear and discernible fracture gap, evident by dark radiolucent line. The periosteal and endosteal callus were also present but bridging was incomplete (Fig. 2 e,f). Angiographic evaluation Normal 0 day angiogram: The radiograph taken immediately after injection of contrast agent into the brachial artery at the distal third humoral region revealed complete opacification of the brachial artery and its distal branches throughout the distal limb. The thick brachial artery branched into relatively thinner collateral ulnar artery, superficial brachial artery and median artery at the proximal metaphyseal level of radius bone. The main trunks of these branches were clearly visible and well defined throughout their course alongside radius and ulna. The superficial brachial and median arteries, after originating from main brachial artery immediately gave rise to many prominent but smaller arterioles which coursed proximally, distally and caudally in the adjoining area. The superficial brachial artery once again branched into prominent medial and lateral divisions at about proximal third diaphyseal aspect of radius and ulna. The diameter of the main trunks of these vessels and median artery gradually decreased distally; however their entire course along side radius and ulna as well as carpal joint was very clear. The collateral ulnar artery coursed mainly on caudal aspect of ulna and tapered off quickly by the distal third diaphyseal aspect of ulna.