 The PTEI was positively and significantly associated with age and gender while negatively and significantly associated with experience of trainee. Some observed constraints of the trainees were inadequate infrastructure at the Institute, particularly with regard to lodging and boarding; lack of practical exposure; and sometimes lesser relevance of few topics, etc. The major suggestions were inclusion of more practical sessions; follow up programmes for trainer-trainee meet, and increasing the duration of trainings in few cases. The PTEI was strongly associated with Subject Matter Divisions (SMDs) and category of employees. Scientists of Agricultural Engineering Division had highest PTEI score (3.98) followed by Animal Science (3.87). In case of other than Scientist category (Technical, Administrative and Skilled Support Staff), the highest PTEI score was achieved by Fisheries Science Division (4.16) followed by Crop Science Division (4.04). It was concluded that the trainings organized by ICAR should continue for all staff to bring about desirable changes in competencies. About 65.3% participants from Agricultural Engineering Division attached medium level of effectiveness of training programmes followed by Crop Science Division (54.1%). About 42.9% participants from Horticulture Science Division attached high level of effectiveness of training programmes closely followed by Agricultural Education Division (42.1%). Other initiatives Executive development programmes for senior officers with international exposure: During the year, an Executive Development Programme (EDP) on Developing Effective Organisational Leadership for Senior Officers of ICAR, was organized by ASCI, Hyderabad in coordination with ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad and HRM Unit, ICAR HQs. The programme was envisaged to enhance leadership capacities, competence, skills of senior research managers and officers to improve the organizational efficiency. Overall, 45 multidisciplinary Senior Scientific and Administrative staff together in 2 batches with both In-country (ASCI, Hyderabad; 2–4 August 2019 for Batch 1 and 9–11 August 2019 for Batch-2) and International components (Netherlands, Belgium, Capacity building programme for CJSC Members: For the first time, a Capacity Building Programme for CJSC members was designed, developed and organized by ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad from 27– 31 January 2020 in which 89 CJSC Members of ICAR Institutes/HQs participated. All the CJSC member participated for the first time in such kind of training programme after being elected as CJSC member. Implementation of training management information system (TMIS): The Training Management Information System (TMIS) has been effectively implemented in ICAR w.e.f. 1 April 2019.