 State treasury system (IFMS of State) should have the information of SLS, unique code, bank accounts of SNA. These details will be shared by PFMS with State treasuries through web service or any other mode. 2. On release of funds to SNAs by the State treasury system, the payment and other details as per point 1 above should be shared with PFMS through the Treasury Integration route. 3. The Finance Department in the State shall ensure that the SLS and corresponding heads of accounts (both Centre and State share) are mapped correctly in the PFMS State Treasury interface. The details can be accessed from TRSY03 report. 4. Finance Department in the State shall ensure interchange of data with PFMS through Treasury interface module on daily basis. This will facilitate provision of accurate information to various MIS users of GoI and States to monitor the utilization of funds. 5. Models for integration – Various Modules: Keeping in view that some States already have dedicated systems for schemes, states may choose one of the following methods (for each scheme) available in PFMS: Model – 1 Use of external system through REAT integration (MIS-Only) External system provides for all operations – viz. setting of drawing limits, account validation of beneficiaries, etc. including payment and provides MIS to PFMS as per REAT Integration document of PFMS. a. In this scenario, SNA External System is required to develop an end to end solution for SNAs and IAs with the facility to process account validation and payments. The SNA’s IT system will be integrated with PFMS as an external system for REAT integration through SFTP mode to share MIS data. 90 b. All the masters like Scheme codes, Scheme definition, Scheme hierarchy, Scheme components will be shared to SNA’s IT System by PFMS through an API. c. The State Nodal Agency code and all its Program Implementing Agencies code, LGD master, payment purpose master, DBT mission code, PFMS bank/branch master and other relevant master data will also be shared to SNA’s IT system by PFMS through an API. d. SNA logs into the IT system and allocates limits to all child agencies based on budgetary requirements received from child agencies. The limits set on SNA’s IT system are exchanged with PFMS through an API. These limits may change or be reallocated by SNA depending on the additional requirement of funds or underutilization of funds by implementing agencies. Any modifications in the limits are to be shared with PFMS through SFTP integration. e. SNA and IAs upload/enter their beneficiary/vendor details on SNA’s IT system and validates beneficiaries/vendor through the arrangements made in its own system.