 In a predominantly rural economy with high dependency on agriculture for rural household livelihoods, growth in agriculture is vital in order to ensure fairness in food and 1Average size of operational holdings in India is 1.4 hectares (Thapa 2009) nutritional security in the rural area. There is a strong relationship between agricultural growth and reduction in poverty and malnutrition and creating equitable society as compared to growth in any other sector. In the context of the Indian government’s push to double farm income by 2022, the thrust placed on smallholder farmer is fair and visionary. Agricultural research, education and extension are said to be the most critical for promoting farm productivity and enhance income amongst various types of government spending for agriculture. Agriculture extension system bridges the gap between research labs to a farmer’s field. However, the reach of the public extension is limited in the country and in addition it is burdened with non-extension I 473 responsibilities such as the distribution of subsidies and inputs, with little time left to attend to core extension activities like advising farmers to enhance adoption of new practices and techniques (Reddy 2018). The Government vision of achieving doubling of farmer’s income by 2022 without the successful delivery of agricultural extension to rural small holder farmers is a daunting task. Why agriculture extension? Agriculture growth depends on various factors such as rainfall, creating irrigation infrastructure, agriculture research and development and prices stabilization, etc. Besides these, the other critical factor is agriculture extension as it translates innovations in the labs to lands of farmer’s. The right information at the right time and place through proper channels is crucial for the farming community to take informed decisions. The extension has been playing an important role in agriculture development for a long time especially during the early period of India’s first Green Revolution (Babu et al. 2013). It has primarily played a role in disseminating agricultural technologies and management practices and thus greatly accelerating agricultural growth and rural development. With changing in government policies, demand and supply characteristics of technology, and marketing reforms, agriculture extension system is facing more opportunities together with challenges. Notes: Information flow is the line between the boxes, though strength and feedback in each line are not described here.