 The lilies are then bunched into a bundle of six stems. For proper packing, foliage must be removed from the lower 10 cm of the flower spikes. Storage: Following the bundling process, Lilium spikes are immersed in a suitable preservative (STS) with an optimal storage temperature of 2-3°C for a shorter duration. Harvesting at higher temperatures may lead to the development of brown spots on the outer petals. Remedy is to store at a temperature of 4°C. The bulbs should be carefully packed in the perforated trays, either in peat moss or sawdust, and stored at a temperature range of 2-3°C with 70% relative humidity for a minimum period of 2 to 3 months in cold storage. Yield and economics: Yield of the Lilium depends on mostly the type of cultivar used. Lilium produces a flower stem for every bulb with 100% flowering represented. It is a prosperous exotic bulbous crop that offers a numerous benefit from protected cultivation. It is important for farmers to carefully plan their greenhouse operations, consider the initial investment costs and acquire the necessary knowledge and skills for successful greenhouse management. Lilium generates a net income of ` 300,000 to 350,000 in Asiatic hybrid or LA hybrid Lilium and ` 400,000 to 450,000 in case of Oriental hybrid lilium cultivation under 1000 m2 protected area. CONCLUSION The protected cultivation technology for lilium presents a strategic and systematic approach to cultivating this high-value and profitable crop. By incorporating practices such as precise harvesting, grading, and post- harvest preservation, growers can optimize the quality and market value of lilium spikes. The use of controlled storage conditions, including appropriate temperatures and humidity levels, further contributes to the preservation of the bulbs. Overall, the implementation of these technologies not only enhances the yield and quality of Lilium but also establishes it as a financially rewarding venture for those engaged in its cultivation. This methodical approach to protected cultivation positions lilium as a promising and lucrative crop within the horticulture sector. For further information, please contact: Division of Floriculture and Landscaping, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, New Delhi 110012. Indian Horticulture 30 Sustainable Landscaping with Under-exploited Native Ornamentals The native plants for landscaping should be built thorough the basic data regarding their habitat, habit and morphological characteristics that contribute to the beauty of the plant, flowering season, attraction to pollinators, plant propagation aspects, tolerance to adverse climatic conditions like drought, flood, etc. As such the suitability of the native plants may vary based on its growing agroclimatic conditions like warm humid tropics, subtropics, cold dry temperate and also dessert-like situations. Hence, situation wise choice of plants assumes very importance for the sustainability of the landscape.