 Hands-on learning programs Mass awareness programs and a series of capacity-building programmes were conducted at Agatti and Kavaratti islands (Table 2) to disseminate the marine ornamentals rearing technology. Following this, the local island administration has identified the interested islanders and recommended them to the NBFGR for providing training on the rearing of ornamental organisms. Under the TSP program of the institute, the selected islanders were trained in necessary aspects of marine ornamental shrimp rearing, which was held for a month duration (Table 3). A total of 82 islanders (77 women and 5 men) were given hands-on learning about all aspects of ornamental fish and shrimp rearing in a backyard rearing setup and community aquaculture unit. This capacity building on captive propagation of commercially important marine ornamentals will lead to livelihood augmentation, besides the conservation of native resources. Community-managed aquaculture units As a part of technology adoption, captive-bred fish and shrimp seeds are being supplied to the beneficiaries for further rearing in backyard rearing setups and community aquaculture units. The rearing units were constructed using locally available raw materials with an eco-friendly approach. The institute is currently sponsoring and supporting four community aquaculture units, where the juvenile ornamental shrimps are successfully being raised to marketable size by 45 women beneficiaries, natives of Agatti island. Wild collected Aerial view of the Agatti island, where ICAR- NBFGR germplasm resource centre is established Inner view of the ICAR-NBFGR germplasm resource centre at Agatti, Lakshadweep 1. Periclimenella agatti, 2. Urocaridella arabianensis, 3. Thor hainanensis and 4. Stenopus hispidus Indian Farming 33 January 2024 shrimps and F1 generation were used for breeding programs in the germplasm centre and the F2 generation is being supplied to the beneficiaries for further rearing in community aquaculture units. They will be rearing them for 2.5 to 3 months and it is directly going to the trade. The project personnel of NBFGR residing at Lakshadweep regularly monitor the units and provide technical inputs to the beneficiaries. This innovative approach on community aquaculture of ornamental organisms will open new avenues, where native people access their heritage biodiversity to derive benefits while conserving these invaluable resources. Livelihood generation In Lakshadweep, the women are engaged in low-income generating activities such as the preparation of coconut oil and traditional snacks, tuna pickling, and cowrie collection. In this milieu, the trained women trained by the NBFGR turned into beneficiaries/entrepreneurs and adopted the technology of marine ornamental aquaculture in community aquaculture units and rearing the shrimp juveniles to marketable size.