 Affected plants in field exhibit stem blight or shallow rot similar to black leg and cause the foliage to wilt and turn yellow. Early symptoms on tubers develop around eyes, lenticels and stolon end where a dark light grey, soft, water soaked lesion develop on the surface of the tuber. Subsequently, the lesions become filled with black mycelium and sclerotia of the pathogen. Secondary organisms may develop in such lesions especially under wet conditions causing significant losses. The disease is incited by a fungus Macrophomina phaseolina (Tassi) Goidanich. Black, smooth, hard 0.1 to 1.0 mm sized sclerotia of the fungus develop within roots, stems, tubers and leaves. M. phaseolina is a weak parasitic soil fungus and over-winters in soil as micro-sclerotia in plant debris, weeds and alternate host crops. The pathogen spreads through the infected seed tubers and through the infested soil carried along with the implements. Poor plant nutrition and wounds predispose the plants to charcoal rot. Temperature around 30oC or above are very favourable for infection, the rot is slow at 20 to 25oC and stops at 10oC or below. Fungal growth stops in tubers placed in cold stores but it resumes the growth after cold storage. The fungus is found on underground parts of an extremely wide range of plants, both cultivated and wild. (a) Stem canker, (b) rosetting of plant tops and (c) black scurf caused by Rhizoctonia solani Charcoal rot of potato tubers Indian Horticulture 36 Management Charcoal rot which used to be a major problem in Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh, was eliminated by adjusting the dates of planting and harvesting. The disease is active only when soil temperature goes beyond 28oC. Therefore, planting early maturing cultivars, frequent irrigations to keep down the soil temperature and harvesting before the soil temperature exceeds 28oC can reduce the disease incidence in eastern plains of India. Rotation with non-host crops and use of seed from disease free area, avoiding cuts and bruises at harvest can also be followed to reduce disease incidence. Grade out the rotten/ diseased tubers at harvesting. Harvested potatoes should be stored at around 13 to 18oC under shade and moderate humidity for two to three weeks for bruises to heal before putting the potato in cold stores. Wart Potato wart is an important and serious disease worldwide. The disease once established is difficult to eradicate since the resting sporangia can survive inter- host periods for up to 20 years. Rough warty mostly spherical outgrowths or protuberances appear on buds and eyes of tubers, stolons, or underground stems or at stem base. Wart may appear occasionally on above ground stem, leaf or flowers. Underground galls are white to light pink when young and become brown or light black with age. Above ground galls are green to brown or black. The wart tissues are soft and spongy. Tubers may get completely replaced by warts which desiccate or decay at harvest.