 In almond, two late-blooming selections which can escape early spring frost and having medium-large-sized nuts with soft-shell were identified. In apricot, a sweetest selection Suka having average fruit weight 22 g, length 36.1 mm and diameter at suture and cheek 36.4 and 32.1 mm respectively and average pulp and stone weight 11.5 and 1.5 g respectively has been identified from Ladakh. Three genotypes of saffron CITH-B-54, S21 and B-64 having average stigma length 36.70, 33.41 and 33.14 mm with excellent quality (Newal grade) were selected. The production technology of saffron cultivation has been standardized. IDEAL CULTIVATION SYSTEM In planting system, maximum yield per plot was recorded in double-hedge row system. In training, modified leader system of training was best for getting maximum yield at Sabour and Pantnagar. LG 5 is a new walnut selection New saffron genotype DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 58 ARID ZONE FRUITS At Central Institute for Arid Horticulture, Bikaner, 322 genotypes of ber, 22 each of boradi and aonla, 152 of pomegranate, 105 of cactus pear, 47 of date palm, 32 each of ker and gonda, 4 of phalsa, 5 varieties of Kinnow mandarin, 558 of kachari, 192 of mateera (watermelon), 90 of snapmelon, 132 of chilli and 64 of muskmelon were maintained. Besides, from the exploration in the parts of Rajasthan and Gujarat, 18 promising genetypes of ber were identified. For rapid multiplication of propagules in aonla, patch budding during mid-July on 6 months old rootstocks raised in polybags and in lasoda, budding during mid- September gave 90.6 and 95.5% success respectively. The water-stress studies in mateera reveals that reduction in number of irrigation has no effect on dry-mater contents as well as photosynthetic rate. For arid ecosystem, datepalm Halawy was identified as best variety in respect of photosynthetic rate, water-use efficiency and carboxylation efficiency. The effect of vermicompost, inorganic fertilizer and FYM in pomegranate revealed that maximum plant height and spread were observed under vermicompost and inorganic fertilizer in a 1 : 1 ratio. The maximum photosynthetic rate and water- use efficiency were recorded in vermicompost and sheep manure with best water retention in soil. In pomegranate, best plant growth and yield were achieved with 0.75 CPE irrigation along with 75% recommended dose of nitrogen through drip. In pomegranate hybrid, Ruby, higher multiplication rate has been achieved by manipulating the growth medium. Methodology for saving hardening space has also been standardized. Planting material of ber, aonla, pomegranate and Indian aloe were raised for distribution to farmers. Seed production of mateera, kachari, snapmelon and salad kakdi were undertaken. About 300 kg foundation seed was produced. VEGETABLE CROPS Bottle gourd, DVBG 1 and bitter gourd DVBTG 1 have been released for cultivation in Uttar Pradesh. Okra, IIVR 11, a tall variety has been developed.