 • ELP on protected cultivation of high value crops enabled the students to learn construction of polyhouses and growing vegetables with the knowledge about best package of practices. They also developed skills for growing vegetables under protected conditions and nursery management. • Trainings on large scale production of bio-inputs like bio- fertilizers and bioagents were imparted to students. • The ELPs on pig rearing and animal feed manufacturing trained the UG students in the area. The students were made aware of the advantages of setting up such enterprises in their areas for the benefit of the community. • In apparel production modules skill of handling technologically advanced machines and textile designing software were acquired. • Designing and preparation of facilitating materials such as charts, posters, leaflets, folders, extension bulletins etc. for dissemination of agricultural technology was undertaken in ELP on product design. Rural Agricultural Work Experience (RAWE) Under (RAWE) the students are exposed to various ITKs and rural agricultural practices under natural setting of the village situations, work with the farm families, identify their problems and make use of various extension tools for transferring the latest agricultural technologies. The students got opportunity to study the crop production and protection including horticulture based commercial farms in villages. The knowledge about crop protection methods was imparted along with the components of organic farming in certain Biofertilizers produced under ELP Experiential Learning Modules pig rearing unit Control Transgenics Control Transgenics • A total of 6 promising lines of groundnut transgenic events expressing Alfin:PDH45:HSF4A were developed by the centre at UAS, Bengaluru. The transgenics showed 23=27%improved productivity as compared to control under drought stress. AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 103 villages. Experience on managing commercial horticultural farms was also gained in some villages. They also studied various aspects of processing, marketing of the produce. The students were given rigorous orientation and familiarization on various issues and problems expected on farmers’ field and hence gain competence and confidence for solving problems related to agriculture and allied sciences. Hence, students experienced the practical aspects of farming under the supervision of faculty. Activities also focused on intensive observations /analysis of socio-economic and technological profile of the farm families in rural areas, and interaction with progressive farmers. The students also gained information on complete package of processing the produce through visits to agro based processing industries. Eight thousand and four hundred and forty four students benefited under RAWE through Council’s support. Soil testing was also done as integral part of RAWE by the students.