 In general, biostimulants are produced as a junction of natural or synthetic substances composed of hormones or precursors of plant hormones. When applied correctly in the crops, they act directly on the physiological processes providing potential benefits for growth and development, respond to water and salinity stress, and elements such as toxic aluminum. These products, which differ from traditional nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium fertilizers, may contain in their formula a variety of organic compounds, such as humic acids, seaweed extracts, vitamins, amino acids, ascorbic acid and other chemicals. Major groups of biostimulants are humic substances, protein hydrolysate and amino acid stimulants, seaweed extract and PGPR. Biofertilizers on the other hand have an indirect effect on the availability of nutrients without itself supplying nutrients. They are live microbial formulations which help in availability and uptake of nutrients. Diazotrophic bacteria are capable of converting atmospheric dinitrogen (N2) into NH3, which can be used by plants. A number of free living soil bacteria are considered to be PGPR because of their competitive advantage in carbon rich and nitrogen poor situations. PGPR associated with root helps in production and regulation of phytohormones, slow release of nutrients (e.g. P and N Fixation) fixed nutrients chelating micronutrients (siderophores among other) produce of antibiotics (phytopathogens) and are anti- pathogenic. Encapsulation microorganism in carrier material (bioformulation) is designated to protect them during storage and from adverse condition, viz. pH and temperature. Agri-Life SOM Phytopharma (India) Limited produces Agri Boom (foliar spray), Aminoacid-Gr, Kohinoor as biostimulants and Fe-sol B, Agri-Life Nitrofix as biofertilizers. Materials suitable for immobilization and preservation of bacteria include alginate gels, synthetic gels (Sol-Gel) polyacrlamide agar and agarose, polyurethane vermiculite and polysaccharides. Harvested residues as smart fertilizer Low cost materials like straw are abundantly available resources in current agricultural systems which contain lignin, hemicelluloses and cellulose that impart mechanical strength properties. Wheat straw contains surface carboxyl, hydroxyl, ether, amino and phosphate which increase its reactivity and physiochemical properties, useful in Crop residue as a fertilizer (Source: https://extension.umn.edu/corn-harvest/crop-residue-management) Indian Farming January 2022 22 the preparation of absorbent materials for the treatment of waste water and slow release fertilizers. However, straw is susceptible to rapid decomposition in soil. A combination of clay or biochar along with wheat straw can act as release fertilizers. Cellulose obtained from residues has been also used in bioformulation as carrier for bacterial inoculants with broad spectrum antifungal activity and suppression of fungal pathogens.