 developed/perfected having any immediate or likely commercial value would be the joint property of the FIRST PARTY and the SECOND PARTY. However, the Intellectual Property claims/formalities would be filed/made by the SECOND PARTY. 11. The SECOND PARTY shall not subcontract any of its obligations under this agreement or enter into any other arrangement that would involve additional parties in the provision of the Services or performance of this agreement without the written sanction from the FIRST PARTY. 12. The parties to this Agreement agree to comply with all applicable laws, rules and administrative instruction laid down by the FIRST PARTY and Government of India, governing activities under this Agreement. 13. In carrying out the terms of this Agreement there shall be no discrimination against any citizens of India because of religion, race, caste, sex, descent, place of birth, residence. 14. The parties do not intend to create in any other individual or entity the status of third party beneficiary, and this Agreement must not be construed so as to create such status. The rights, duties and obligations contained in this Agreement operate only between the parties to this Agreement. The provisions of this Agreement are intended only to assist the parties in determining and performing their obligations under this Agreement. The parties to this Agreement intend and expressly agree that only parties signatory to this Agreement will have any legal or equitable right derived or accrued under this Agreement. 15. The Sanction Order issued by the FIRST PARTY for establishing the KVK for the SECOND PARTY along with Appendix thereof, Mortgage Deed, Schedule of land, and Indemnity Bond shall be read as integral part of the Agreement and together consist an integrated Agreement between the parties and supersedes all previous agreements, understandings and negotiations on that subject matter. 16. Either party to this Agreement may terminate the Agreement after giving 90 (ninety) days written notice to the other Party of their intention to do so. 17. Further the FIRST PARTY reserves its right to terminate this Agreement, without giving any notice for the same and without any liability whatsoever, in the event of contravening or for non-complying with any of the conditions of Agreement by the SECOND PARTY or in the event of SECOND PARTY becoming Insolvent. 139 Appendices 18. The movable property, such as vehicles/equipments/implements/farm machinery etc. purchased at the cost of the FIRST PARTY would be the sole property of the First Party. Immediately in the event of the termination of the Project, the SECOND PARTY shall be obliged to hand over all these movables to the First Party and the First Party shall decide the manner in which these vehicles/equipments/implements/farm machinery etc. can be utilized/transferred or disposed of. 19.