 There were 2,146 technological interventions including 1,118 on crops, 381 on livestock, 449 on horti- culture, 30 on forestry, 48 on fisheries, 21 on gender implications, and 61 on other related areas. During the year, 60,290 farmers in 246 villages were covered. An orientation workshop was also organized. RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS 183 The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) through the Central Agricultural Research Institute (CARI), Port Blair, the Vivekananda Pravatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan (VPKAS), Almora, and the ICAR Research Complex for North-Eastern Hills Region, Umaim, Meghalaya, evolves technologies to meet the needs of tribal farmers in hilly areas. These technologies are intended to improve the socio-economic status of the target group, and will help them to acquire special skills through vocational training in traditional and non-traditional crops, agroforestry, apiculture, sericulture, horticulture, animal husbandry, poultry and fisheries. CENTRAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE, PORT BLAIR Rice The RAPD-PCR involving eight arbitrary decamer primers was done to discriminate the cultivars based on the extent of polymorphism in the form of discernible amplicons. A large number of bands of varied molecular weight indicated that a majority of them were polymorphic. Amplified DNA was of 0.30-1.0 kb. All the genotypes were found uniquely distinguished. Dendrograms grouped 19 genotypes into three major clusters. The average linkage dendrogram based on genetic distances confirmed the existence of ample genetic diversity in the available accessions indigenous to Bay Islands. The rice varieties found promising were Quing Livan No.1, Miliyang 55, PAC 831 and HRI 120. In long-duration C 14-8, the maximum grain yield (3.0 tonnes/ha) was recorded with 75% of recommended N dose + Azospirillum. However, further reduction in N dose significantly reduced the yield. In medium (IET 6314)- and short-duration 3. 3. 3. 3. 3. Research for Tribal and Hill Regions Research for Tribal and Hill Regions Research for Tribal and Hill Regions Research for Tribal and Hill Regions Research for Tribal and Hill Regions ● Average linkage dendrogram confirmed ample genetic diversity in available accessions of the rice indigenous to Bay Islands ● Under-utilized fruits Malayan apple and durian collected RAPD-PCR of rice cultivars indigenous to Bay Islands Quing Livan No. 1, is a semi-tall, medium-duration rice with moderately bold grains and good-cooking quality characters Promising rice variety Miliyang 55 is suitable for Bay Islands. The variety possesses moderate tolerance to bacterial leaf blight, sheath blight etc. and moderate bold grains and good-cooking quality characters DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 184 varieties, though the maximum grain yield was recorded with full recommended N dose, it was on a par with 75% of recommended N dose + Azospirillum. Azospirillum significantly increased the growth and yield by 17.6-52.