 A total of about 140 participants including MLA, DDG (AE), ADG (AE), Vice-Chancellor, Directors of different ICAR institutes, DEEs of SAUs, Pr. Scientists (AE) and ICAR-ATARI Kolkata, Scientists from RRS of ICAR and UBKV, SSHs and SMSs of KVKs, staff of UBKV-KVKs and many others attended the workshop. Director ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute Kolkata, Zone V Kolkata 700 097, West Bengal Village workshop organized by ARS Probationers 14 June 2023, Dehradun. At the village Kandogal, in Kudiyal Gram Panchayat, a scientific workshop on rural evaluation was jointly organized by the ICAR-National Academy of Agricultural Research and Management (NAARM), Hyderabad, and the Indian Institute of Soil and Water Conservation, Dehradun. Six Scientists 7 ICAR REPORTER April - June 2023 International Linkages International training for Nepal and Bangladesh officials on Production protocol of biocontrol agents for the management of Fall armyworm 31 May 2023, Bengaluru. A five days training programme on the “Production protocol of biocontrol agents for the management of Fall armyworm” was organized at ICAR-National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources, Bengaluru for seven officials from Nepal and Bangladesh on 22-26 May 2023. The training was sponsored by USAID, under the Feed the Future Nepal Integrated Pest Management Program (FTFNIPM) and Feed the Future Bangladesh Integrated Pest Management (IPMA) program funded by USAID. The focus of the training was to provide hands-on training on the Production protocol of biocontrol agents for the management of Fall armyworm. Dr SN Sushil, Director, ICAR-NBAIR emphasized that closer working with neighbouring countries is essential to ward off the threat due to alien invasive pests. He also emphasised the importance of regional cooperation in the field of pest identification and sustainable management of invasive pests. from the Academy shared their experiences of rural evaluation with the farmers. The Scientist Probationers from NAARM, Hyderabad shared scientific solutions based on the study conducted in Kandogal village agriculture and livestock systems over the past 15 days from 29 May to 12 June 2023. Agricultural Knowledge Management Unit (AKMU) ICAR-Indian Institute of Soil & Water Conservation (IISWC) 218-Kaulagarh Road Dehradun, Uttarakhand 248 195 World Blood Donor Day Observed at ICAR-CRIDA, Hyderabad 15 June 2023, Dehradun. World Blood Donor Day is observed every year on 14 June to raise awareness of the importance of blood donation and to recognize the contribution of voluntary unpaid blood donors in saving lives and improving health. The Day was celebrated at ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture as an activity under ‘Raktdaan Amrit Mahotsav’, approved under Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. This year’s theme was “Give blood, give plasma, share life, share often”. On this occasion, all the staff of ICAR-CRIDA has undertaken a pledge of blood donation.