59 (mg) thiamine Kodo millet (Kodo millet varagu, haraka and arikalu) 8.3% protein, 1.4% fat, 65.6% carbohydrates, and 2.9% ash. The anti-oxidant potential is much higher than any other millet and major cereals Little millet (Sawai, samalu and same, kutki) 8.7 g protein, 75.7 g carbohydrate, 5.3 g fat and 1.7 g mineral, and 9.3 mg iron/100 g of grains Proso millet (Cheena, panivaragu, variga and baragu) Magnesium, manganese and phosphorus. It prevents high blood pressure and provides adequate zinc, vitamin B6 and iron. It is gluten- free and rich in fatty acids and carbohydrates Barnyard millet Source of protein, carbohydrates, fibre and most notably, contains more micronutrients (iron and zinc) than other major cereals in mind we have discussed here some of the important insect pest of millets and their management with an integrative approach. The millets pests are classified as Stem borer Among them spotted stem borer; Chilo partellus and pink stem borer; Sesamia inferens are the important pests. Spotted stem borer [Chilo partellus Swinhoe (Crambidae: Lepidoptera)]: Sorghum, Pearl millet, finger millet, sugarcane and rice are the important hosts. It infests the crop from the second week after sowing till the crop maturity. Initially, the larvae feed on the upper surface of whorl leaves, leaving the lower surface intact as transparent windows. As the severity of the feeding increases, blend of punctures and scratches of epidermal feeding appears prominently. Dead hearts, peduncle tunnelling and partial chaffy panicle are the prominent symptoms. Pink stem borer [Sesamia inferens Walker (Noctuidae: Lepidoptera)]: Sorghum, maize, rice, wheat, sugarcane, pearl millet and ragi are the important hosts. The pink larvae are gregarious in nature, congregate inside the leaf whorls, and feed on the central leaves, causing typical ‘pinhole’ symptoms. The central shoot turns brownish and dries out, although the lower leaves remain green and healthy, called as ‘dead heart’. The empty panicles become very conspicuous in a field because they remain straight and whitish. Shoot flies Sorghum, finger millet, pearl millet, proso millet, kodo millet, fox tail millet, barnyard millet, little millet are the main hosts. It is a seedling pest normally occurring in the 1st–6th week after germination. Maggot feeds on the growing tip causing wilting of leaves and dead hearts. It produces side tillers at the boot leaf stage. Foliage pests Red hairy caterpillar [Amsacta albistriga Walker (Erebidae: Lepidoptera)]: Sorghum, ragi, pearl millet, maize, barley, cotton, castor, cowpea are the main hosts. Crops grown in red soils are prone to attack. Due to gregarious habits and voracious feeding, complete defoliation of millet plants or destruction of seedlings may occur in a short time. Dark larvae feed gregariously on the lower surface of leaves scraping for 4–5 days and in 10 days, they turn ashy brown. The larvae migrate from one field to other for feeding.