 Weed management Rice monoculture invited grassy weeds (weedy rice, Echinochloa colona, Echinochloa crusgalli, Echinochloa glabresens), sedges (Cyperus difformis, Cyperus iria) and broad leaf weeds (Alternanthera sessilis, Ammania baccifera, Eclipta prostrata, Ludwigia octovalvis, Sphaenochlea zeylanica) in Wilting and dying of tomato under brinjal-tomato sequence Healthy tomato crop without wilt under millet-tomato sequence Indian Farming 21 February 2024 medium lands. Rice monoculture promoted Monochoria, Chara, Nitella, Hydrilla, Ludwigia and Ipomoea under lowlands. It was observed that growing of Sesbania as cover- cum-green manure crop before rice reduces weed population due to allelopathy and/or smothering effect. Crop diversification using sunhemp (Crotolaria) under uplands and Sesbania under lowlands is useful in weed management in addition to nitrogen fixation and promotion of earthworm population. Wheat monoculture promoted Poaceae weed Phalaris minor. Growing environment and crop morphology of wheat and the weed being similar, it is an associative weed of wheat crop. This weed produces 10,000 to 30,000 seeds per plant as compared to only 60 to 80 seeds for wheat. Monoculture of wheat has favoured huge weed seed bank and now it is difficult manage this weed. Crop diversification with mustard, French bean, field pea etc. is easy and safe way of managing this problematic weed. Adequately distributes nutrients in soil profile: Crop diversification with legume crops help in nitrogen fixation and thereby leave residual N in soil. When legume crop residues are incorporated into soil, there is quick release of nutrients due to high nitrogen content as compared to carbon content. Similarly, inclusion of deep rooted crops helps to recycle nutrients which were leached beyond the root zone of shallow rooted crops. Also, crops differ in nutrient demand. Cereals and banana have high demand for nitrogen and potash; pulses have high demand for calcium, phosphorous, molybdenum and cobalt; and oilseeds have special requirement of sulphur and calcium. Growing diverse crops in rotation helps in efficient utilization of these nutrients from soil profile. Efficient utilization of soil water: Crops differ in rooting pattern and depth. Crop diversification using deep rooted crops (Alfalfa, redgram, corn, cotton, melons, pumpkin) help in using soil moisture from deeper layers. In water deficit areas, C4 plants (Sorghum, bajra, sugarcane, millets and switch grass) and CAM plants (Pineapple, Agave, Opuntia, Dragon fruit) are suitable. Among the C3 plants, short duration crops and plants having tolerance to moisture stress (millets, moth bean green gram, black gram) can be used in crop diversification programme. Moderately deep rooted watermelon crop when planted early in the season could grow using residual soil moisture and supplemental irrigation.