 Labelling of organic inputs and certification mechanism for various crops/fruits and vegetables. 4. Popularization of Udhyan and Krishak Cards for widespread use of government incentives/ subsidies to farmers. 5. Establishment of mother orchard to meet the present and future demand of germplasm in horticultural fruit crops. 6. Implementation of effective and workable Nursery Act to avoid spurious or unreliable planting material/seedlings in the state. 7. Ensure sustainable agriculture through more efficient utilization of land, water and other resources. 8. Promote mechanization through small implement suitable for hills, provide maximum subsidy for sprinkler and drip irrigation facility and protected cultivation of vegetables. 9. Creating new market for purchase of farm produce specially horticulture crops at block level and providing facilities for maintaining cool chain for sending the produce from the state to distant market with in the country and abroad. 10. Floriculture has immense potential to boost the economy of farmers as well as the state therefore potential floriculture crops like Lilium, carnation, gerbera, rose, orchids and other bulbous flowering plant should be promoted in all the blocks. 11. Promotion and cultivation of Marigold for meeting the demand of religious in religious places of Uttarakhand. 606 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 12. Implementation of Soil Health Card Scheme at gram panchyat level. 13. Implementation of policies for control of wild animal menace in agricultural areas. Strategy 9: Marketing and value addition 1. Establishment of cold storage in all blocks of Uttarakhand. 2. Creation of better transportation facilities with cold chain van at block level in Uttarakhand. 3. Creation of direct linkages with food processing industries for better prices. 4. Establishment of strong linkages with various stack holders to furnish information on crop produce and surplus. 5. Establishment of procurement and collection centre at Nyaypanchyat level for agricultural surplus with proper labelling. 6. Formation of district level committees of State line departments with KVK experts for field and as well as online monitoring, evaluation and feedback. 7. Installation of mini grading machines at village level in Uttarakhand. 8. Establishment of mini mandies at block level in the state. 9. Creation of direct linkages with food processing industries for better prices. 10. Establishment of strong linkages with various stack holders to furnish information on crop produce and surplus. 11. Promotion of localHatt at Tahsil level in the blocks. 12. Development of proper marketing network to check the interference of middle men in marketing of agricultural produce of the farmers. Strategy 10: Online Management and Evaluation 1. Development of Mobile apps/ software for online management and evaluation at district level. 2.