 of indigenous backyard poultry with low yield potential and high mortality Fodder Less area under fodder production Less area under fodder production Less area under fodder production Local varieties having low green fodder yield, burning of straw Health care Lack of infrastructure for disease diagnosis and vaccination Lack of infrastructure for disease diagnosis and vaccination Lack of infrastructure for disease diagnosis and vaccination Marketing Lack of market linkage of livestock products except milk Lack of market linkage of livestock products except milk Lack of market linkage of livestock products except milk Lack of market linkage of livestock products except milk C. Fisheries sector In fisheries sector, the major constraints across the agro-climatic zones are as follows: Š Š Quality brood management Š Š High cost of feed Š Š Lack of integrated fish farming models/units Š Š Lack of quality seed and fish fingerlings, particularly of IMC Š Š Unorganized marketing sector Š Š Lack of cold chain and cold storage Š Š Inadequate number of trained extension functionaries D. Constraints of Beekeeping Industry in Bihar Š Š Bihar is enriched with highly diversified, abundant bee-flora and favourable ecological conditions. The honey production potential is about three times (60-65 kg) higher than the national average (20 kg) and very high than any state of India, viz., Punjab (30 kg) H.P. (35 kg) and Haryana (20 kg) per hive per year. Š Š Beekeepers are not alert to build up their colonies to full strength before honey flow season resulting in poor honey yield. Š Š Extraction of unripe honey and honey from brood cell reduces quality of honey. Š Š Queen excluder are not properly used which also affect quality of honey. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 67 Š Š Old and blackish frames are used in super chamber and exchange of brood frame and super frames decline honey yield with dark colour. Š Š At the time of extraction of honey, proper care is not taken to clean the equipments, container and filter. Extraction is not done in bee proof chamber. Š Š Beekeepers generally place dark colour old frames in super chamber resulting the production of poor quality honey. Š Š Processing of raw honey is not done by beekeepers to prevent fermentation and granulation. Š Š The level of HMF (Hydoxy-Methyl-Furfuraldehyde) should be below permissible level in honey and care is not taken by beekeepers. Š Š Uncontrolled heating of honey during processing by beekeepers causes loss of flavour, aroma, enzyme, taste and colour. Š Š Honey is stored poorly during storage by beekeepers in metallic container which rust and darken the stored honey. Š Š There is no agency to issue quarantine or migration certificate of bee colonies. Š Š Delay in official formalities, particularly at check gates results in mortality of the honeybees.