2306980 ***** Exposure visit of paddy (MTU- 7029) seed production through SRI method , GVT- KVK, Godda Training program for farmers and farm women on cultivation of azolla for poultry feed Poultry birds in Holy Cross KVK farm 15 Chapter 358 358 International and National Collaborations in Agricultural Research and Development JP Mishra1 and A Arunachalam2 1Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi 2ICAR-Central Agro-Forestry Research Institute, Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh Summary Collaborations in agricultural R&D during the last 75 years shaped the country’s path for agricultural development and provided solutions to needs of the people and the planet. The initial collaborations with Ford Foundations and Rockefeller Foundations in the 1950s and 1960s helped introducing the dwarf varieties of wheat from Mexico and establishment of SAUs on the Land Grant Pattern of USA. On education, the Indo-US agreement on educational exchange, was signed on February 2, 1950 in New Delhi by Prime Minister of India and U.S. Ambassador that led to establishment of US Educational Foundation in India and the Fulbright Program in India. The national collaborations with SAUs which started with AICRP on Maize in 1957 unfolded the ICAR-SAUs partnership in subsequent decades to become one of the largest collaborative frameworks in agricultural research, education and extension globally. The international collaboration with Mexico/CIMMYT for exchange of dwarf wheat varieties/lines and ICAR-IRRI for dwarf rice varieties augmented the efforts under Green Revolution and made India food secure. ICAR-IRRI and ICAR-CIMMYT collaborations in rice and wheat later extended for development of varieties for water stressed conditions and rust resistance, respectively in India. The ICAR- ICRISAT collaborations starting with research on hybrid pigeonpea and later genomics and gene editing in pulses was also strategic. The ICAR-CGIAR collaborations expanded to strategic locations through the establishment of ICARDA’s Food Legumes Research Platform (FLRP) in Madhya Pradesh and its satellite hubs in West Bengal and Rajasthan; CIMMYT’s Borlaug Institute for South Asia (BISA) in 2014 at Ludhiana along with its field offices in MP and Bihar; and IRRI-South Asia Regional Centre at Varanasi in 2017. The collaborative research under network project NICRA for climate change and soils, water and plant nutrients, IFS, and agroforestry were strengthened over time. International and national collaborations in livestock and fisheries sector helped introduction of new breeds, and development of vaccines and diagnostics, quality standards, health, nutrition and hygiene standards and protocols. The collaborations in the farm machinery and power helped development of energy efficient farm implements. The bilateral cooperation in agricultural R&D extended to all continents touching to 65 nations in 2020-21.