 Katageri not undertake the work assigned to him as per the project proposal, he did not request for requisite help or guidance, in view of his own admitted inability, from the P.1. On his part, the P.1. did not perform the duties of overall coordination, monitoring and filling in the gaps that are normally expected of the P.1. 5.03 Only two Southern positive transformants were obtained in the development of BNBt; one of which was single copy and the other was multi-copy. As the multi-copy line 9 - - - - - - - - was not used further, it meant that only one event was available. This is grossly inadequate, as a large number of events need to be screened in the event selection trials to identify the best performing line having commercial potential. It may be added that it is not impossible to get an agronomically desirable strain from a single transgenic event. However, its probability is extremely low. 5.04 During the BNBt development programme, selection of desirable plants/progenies was based on the presence of Cry1Ac protein. This was done in spite of knowing fUlly well that there was already another event (MON531) in the field, which would also test positive for Cry1Ac protein. Clearly testing for Cry1Ac protein alone was insufficient, as this would not preclude presence of the MON531 event. Each generation should have been tested for the event BNLA106. This was not done. 5.05 RT-PCR analysis done at NRCPB indicates that cry1Ac expression in "purified" BNBt is significantly less, as compared to expression in MON531 (refer Annexure-VIII-A; Pgs.89-96). If this is a correlate of effectiveness, BNBt would be much less effective than MON531. This may be kept in view, if ICAR intends to proceed towards commercialisation of "purified" BNBt. 5.06 The Committee is of the view that there were indications, prior to commercial - release, that BNBt was contaminated with MON531. (Please refer to para 7.05). These were not formally brought to the attention of the relevant authorities. Neither these indications were followed up appropriately by the scientist who observed them nor was any attention paid by others who came to know of them. If the corrective measures had been - taken at that time, by those involved in development and commercialisation of BNBt and Bt NHH 44, the situation that has now arisen could have been avoided. - - - - 5.07 There seemed to be an extreme hurry to come up with a public sector Bt cotton. Agronomic evaluation is normally started when strain(s) are nearly homozygous and homogenous. But in the present case, BNBt was put under field evaluation before the homogeneity was achieved. 10 - - - - - - - - -- 5.08 Commercial seed production procedure was not followed, even though there is a well established procedure in this regard.