 Ornamental fish villages can be also developed in a cluster model by identifying suitable sites and involving local community in fish culture. The cluster can be developed as public private partnership leased to the interested entrepreneurs by local governing body. This type of model can be seen in Chennai Aqua Rainbow park, where number of small ornamental units are developed Indian Farming November 2020 37 by this institute through mass selection technology, which was probably first improved variety of ornamental fish in India. Contribution in blue revolution and PMMSY Ornamental fish culture will be a boon for farmers with available water resources and are keen for expansion of their farming practices. The financial boost will help in adding up the trade value of the sector including production of accessories in India. Developmental schemes by NFDB and MPEDA in last decade has given Conclusion Ornamental fishery helps small entrepreneurs in ensuring their livelihood in regions like Kolkata, Chennai and Mumbai. This can be replicated in many urban cities for upbringing this industry and also to ensure employment among youths. As this sector is developing we need to attract many people towards this business and strengthen the domestic trade. *Corresponding author’s email: sarojswain2008@gmail.com a better shape to this industry. This was mainly focused in states like Kerala, West Bengal, and Tamil Nadu on backyard units with minimal investment. A targeted investment of ` 576 crores to generate 7 lakh employment for upgrading the ornamental aquaculture sector is presently set under Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY). Also additional investment of ` 500 crore under World Bank scheme is proposed for catering this sector. This will surely help financial needs of the sector to lift up the farming. HANDBOOK OF FISHERIES AND AQUACULTURE Fisheries is a sunrise sector with varied resources and potentials. The sector engages 14 million people at the primary level and is earning over `10,000 crore annually through exports. Fish consumption has shown a continuous increasing trend assuming greater importance in the context of ‘Health Foods’. It is expected that the fish requirement by 2025 would be of the order of 16 million tonnes, of which at least 12 million tonnes would need to come from the inland sector and aquaculture is expected to provide over 10 million tonnes. The domestic market for fish and fishery products is also growing rapidly and necessary models and quality control protocols in this regard need to be developed. In 2006, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, brought out the First Edition of ‘Handbook of Fisheries and Aquaculture’. The present revised edition comprises 42 updated and six new chapters, viz. Fish physiology; Aquaculture engineering, Fisheries development in India; Fisheries cooperatives; Demand and supply of fish; and Climate change – impact and mitigation.