71) was recorded with the treatment tobacco-soacked water and it was at par with the return/rupee spent (Rs 3.60) obtained with use of endosulphan. These two treatments were superior over control and also gave 42% more return/rupee spent than control. Similar trends were observed under Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS individual year data. Thus, it seems that both tobacco-soaked water and endosulphan are equally good in controlling shoot and fruit borer in brinjal and economically viable for production of brinjal. CONCLUSION Results of the experiments conducted for 3 years reveal that tobacco-soaked water is effective in controlling shoot and fruit borers of brinjal, as claimed by the discloser. □ Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK : 701 : Protection of cabbage from pests : Cabbage is one of the important cash crops of Shimla district. In cabbage plants a special type of pest spoils the inner portion of cabbage, the cabbage remains loose, and ultimately plant falls down. Ash and cow urine are used to protect cabbage plants from insect pests. This ITK is useful to check insect pests and also to enhance cabbage productivity. Cow urine may have same chemical that may have insecticidal properties. Name and address of the discloser : Location of use of the ITK Experimenters Shri Devkant Prakash, village Bhagheog, P.O. and tehsil Theog, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 201 This ITK is prevalent in Theog area of Shimla district in Himachal Pradesh. This area forms a part of high hills temperate wet Himalayan region and lies between the longitudes 77°-0" and 78°-19" east and latitudes 3O°-45" and 31 °-44". This zone is physiographically a mountainous tract with terraces. Mainly dry farming is practised and soil is shallow, silt to loam in texture and acidic in nature. This zone at present contributes to about 96% of the total temperate fruit production. Apple is the most predominant fruit grown in the zone. Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla 171 005 Dr L.R. Verma, Vice-Chancellor, Shri Chamanlal and Shri Sanjeev Noel, Scientific Assistant, Himachal Pradesh University, Summer Hill, Shimla 171 005, Himachal Pradesh, and Shri Devkant Prakash, village Bhagheog, P. O. and tehsil Theog, Shimla 171 201 (Himachal Pradesh) Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bangalore and Dr P Ganeshan and P. N. Krishna Moorty, Principal Scientists, IIHR, Hessargahtta, Lake Post, Banglore 560 089 (Karnataka). METHODOLOGY During 2004 at MRDA farm station, Shimla cabbage aphids were collected for carrying out bioassay test and were recorded in pepti-dishes at ambient room temperature and relative humidity, and fed on fresh cabbage leaves in Entomology laboratory of HPU. Aphids were groomed and sprayed with 1 ml of each concentration of the stock solutions (94 ml/ 100 ml water) for insecticidal treatments of phenol, cathnol, 2,5 di phenyl phenol, paracresol, ammonia, urea and uric acid.