 Strengthening linkages between farmers and research institutions and promotion of Agri-Clinics/Agri- innovation hubs at block level and Agri/Rural tourism to supplement the income of farmers. Agri/Rural Tourism ™ ™ Development of Agri/Rural-tourism at the outskirt of the selected cities like Varanasi, Mathura, Faizabad, Allahabad etc. on protected cultivation, micro irrigation system, milking devices, model cattle shed, natural farming, technology park, genetic garden with biofortified crop etc. ™ ™ Development of strong linkage between farmers and research institution for mutual sharing of expertise for empowerment, capacity building and entrepreneurship development of the farmers like honey bee keeping, household micro-processing of honey, household processing of fruits and vegetables, seeds and seedlings production, low-cost compost technology, farm mechanization, natural farming etc. by creating Agri- Clinics/Agri-innovation hubs. 626 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Strategy Action Plan 22. Technical backstopping to the private sector companies by agri- research institutions and SAUs to channelize their funds under corporate social responsibility (CSR) for agricultural development. ™ ™ Increasing funding to the SAUs for improving research & development infrastructure for generating location specific need based technologies for demonstration to the farming communities in different zones. ™ ™ Technological backstopping by these institutions to farmers via extension networks for raising agricultural production. 23. Mass vaccination and regular deworming in livestock and poultry for increasing productivity. Improving livestock and poultry health by mass vaccination against important diseases, deworming on regular basis, production of quality green fodder round- the-year, infertility management of cow and buffalo through availability of area-specific mineral mixture and broiler buffalo rearing for export quality meat production. ™ ™ Ensuring timely vaccination with the vaccines already available in the market against the major diseases like Foot-and-Mouth disease (FMD), Peste des Petits Ruminants (PPR), Black Quarter (BQ), Haemorrhagic Septicaemia (HS) in animals and Newcastle disease in poultry and regular deworming in animals against the major worms. This intervention can be implemented by the State Department of Animal Husbandry, SAU (Animal Science) in joint collaboration with ICAR-IVRI and ICAR- CARI. ™ ™ Promotion of mineral mixture supplementation, immuno- modulatory treatment for repeat breeders (low cost techniques) and use of crystoscope (detection of oestrus) for detection of right time of AI at field level can be executed by the State Department of Animal Husbandry in collaboration with ICAR- IVRI. ™ ™ Adoption of growing Bajra Napier Hybrid/Guinea grass and other perennial grasses on the bunds of field boundaries, irrigation channels and community farm land and other non- competitive land areas.