 Syngenta, Seminis, Sakata, Advanta are top four cauliflower companies who have introduced full range of hybrids starting from 45 to 100 days in different segments to address growers needs. Other important contributions of vegetable breeding in private sector F1 Hybrids in Dolichos and Cowpea: Ankur Seed Fig. 8. Gherkins Fig. 9. Vegetable Brassica area and yield of India 1990-2018 (Source: FAO and key product segments) Vegetable Brassica–Cabbage and cauliflower: Both Cauliflower and Cabbage are now over 90% hybrids. In tropical Cauliflower the breeding locally in India by Syngenta, Advanta, VNR in private sector has had a huge impact on its acreage and yield. Today over 20 tonnes of seeds are sold, and Syngenta holds major market share of over 50% as per author’s personal estimates. Significantly this work has led to extending the sowing window of February to July in North India for heat tolerant segment. Hybrid Syn 1522 from Syngenta is the clear market leader. This work at Syngenta and Advanta took over 10 years to reach the current stage. Not only do they develop curds under high temperature but have uniform curd size of 500 g to 600 g and nearly 10% plants yield curds that are white. In another transformation in this crop almost 100% Indian Horticulture 12 has recently released for the first time ever F1 hybrids in Dolichos and Cowpeas using genetic male sterility system (Fig 10). Protected cultivation: Polyhouse, greenhouse and nethouse cultivation is gaining ground as it assures quality and yield in adverse conditons – high rains as well as high heat. Reduces water use significantly. Companies like Rik Zwan and Enza Zaden have research base in Netherlands for protected cultivation and are major suppliers of indoor crops, e.g Slicer and Gherkin Cucumbers and various types of Lettuce and large and cherry tomatoes. Rik Zwan is introducing Mid/high tech cultivation methods (Soil less/NFT), transferring knowledge to growers, stimulating, and supporting export, developing linkages between growers and chain partners, cooperation with partners: growers, chain partners and knowledge sharing with institutes and government. Cravo is introducing large scale protected cultivation green houses in India since last six years. These are based on retractable roofs that are controlled by a centralized computer system. Though initially expensive, this technology needs to be adopted by large FPO’s as Cravo caters to very large structures. They have a couple of 100-acre projects going on in the country as of now. New breeding tools Since 2002 molecular markers have not only been developed in the private sector (tomatoes, peppers, brassica vegetables) but have been applied on a large scale. The author has been using in tomatoes since 2003 and was even responsible for opening the applied MAS lab in Pune under Syngenta in Pune (probably the first such applied lab in pvt sector) followed by a DH lab in Aurangabad in 2005.