 Bark grey-brown or creamy white, warty; leaves membranous, cordate with a broad sinus; flowers small, yellow or greenish yellow, appearing when the plant is leafless, in axillary and terminal racemes or racemose panicles; male flowers clustered and females usually solitary; drupes ovoid, glossy, succulent, red, pea- sized; seeds curved. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 2539 Use of mayurchulia (Elephantopus scaber) in treatment of bone fracture in animals Volume 2, supplement I, page 112 Mayurchulia Bengali: gojialata, shamdulum; Gujarati: bhopathari; Hindi: gobhi, samudulam; Kannada: hakkarike; Malayalam and Tamil: anashovadi; Marathi: pathari; Sanskrit: gojihva, karipadam; Telugu: hastikasaka. Elephantopus scaber Linn. Bruised leaves boiled in coconut oil are applied to ulcers and eczema. A decoction of roots and leaves is used as emollient and is given in dysuria, diarrhoea, dysentery and swellings or pains in the stomach. The root is given to arrest vomiting; powdered with pepper it is applied in toothache. A rigid herb with large, obovate-oblong, radical leaves forming a rosette and numerous clusters of flower- heads. It is found throughout the hotter parts of India. Habit Habi t Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2535 Treatment for fracture of animal bone by methi seed (Trigonella foenum-graecum) Volume 2, supplement I, page 112 Methi Refer to ITK Code No. 741 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2570 Use of hot mustard oil to cure dropping switch of tail of animal Volume 2, supplement I, page 112 Mustard Refer to ITK Code No. 481 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2622 Use of mustard oil to treat the loss of hair from cattle tail Volume 2, supplement I, page 113 Mustard Refer to ITK Code No. 481 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2636 Use of aak leaves to control afara disease in animals Volume 2, supplement I, page 114 Calotropis Refer to ITK Code No. 474 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2603 Use of wheat soup for curing bloat (afara) in animals Volume 2, supplement I, page 115 Wheat Refer to ITK Code No. 1217 Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK : 2556 : Use of draink (Melia azadirach) leaves for curing bloat in animals : Volume 2, supplement I, page 115 : Draink Refer to ITK Code No.