 Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3307 Treatment of uterus problem in animals with chuie-muie grass 3308 Treatment for prolapse in animals with chikni supari, multani mitti and ghee 3309 Treatment of prolapsed uterus in animals by use of bael 3310 Treatment of cow for expulsion of placenta with Urtica dioica calving of the she-animals. Keywords: thore, lajwanti, simada To cure this ailment, leaf juice of chuie-muie (Mimosa pudica) grass is applied on uterus of the animal. This ITK is practised in village Nawada (Band) of block Faridpur of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: uterus problem, animal, chuie-muie grass Problem of prolapse appears in cows and buffaloes. In this treatment, 100 g chikni supari, 150 g multani mini (bentonite) and 150 g cow ghee are mixed properly and fed to the animal for 3 days. During these 3 days the animal is fed light fodder, and feeding of jaggery slurry is avoided. While giving this treatment, the affected organs are washed with local liquor, and uterus is being set with round ring (edani) and string. Animal is kept in half-standing position to maintain cleanliness. Keywords: prolapse, chikni supari, multani mini, cow ghee This ITK is used for the treatment of prolapsed uterus in animals. About 250-300 g fruit pulp of bael (Agle marmelos) is fried and mixed with water. This is given twice or thrice daily. The people of village Sundyaba of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh are using this treatment. Keywords: prolapsed uterus, bael This ITK is used throughout Rohru of Shimla district in Himachal Pradesh. Bitchu-ghuti (Urtica dioica) is boiled with wheat flour and fed to the cow. This helps in early and easy expulsion of placenta. Keywords: placenta, cow, bitchu-ghuti Shri Rajendra Singh 'Bhole', Faridpur, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Smt. Pana Bai, C/o Shri Trilok Prajapati, Kantharia, Tehsil Jhadol, dist. Udaipur (Rajasthan) Shri Tota Ram, S/o Shri Mulchand, Sundyaba, Haphijganj, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Ms Yashwant Singh Hartta, Institute of Integrated Himalayan Studies, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3311 Removal of placenta in animals by feeding gharona and oashan About 600 g leaves of gharona creeper or 500 g leaves of oashan are ground to make a paste. The prepared paste is given once to the animals along with fodder for the treatment of removal of placenta. This helps in removing other wastes of the body also, thus making the animal's body clean.