 Poultry Nutritional manipulations for optimising performance: Supplementation of selenium (0.3ppm) in either organic or inorganic forms in combination with vitamin E (200 mg/kg) improved shell quality and activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase in broiler breeders. When tocotrienol, a precursor of vitamin E was evaluated in broilers against vitamin E, it was found that tocotrienol was more effective in improving the anti-oxidant responses in broilers even at much lower concentrations (4-8 mg/kg) compared to those fed vitamin E (100 mg/kg). Supplementation of nano-zinc at reduced levels in diet (80-7.5 mg/kg) improved feed efficiency, reduced lipid peroxidation and improved glutathione peroxidase activity and SOD in spleen and liver in broiler chicken. Antibody titres against New Castle disease (ND) increased, lipid peroxidation decreased and activity of glutathione peroxidase improved in broilers fed moringa leaf meal (500-1,000 mg/kg) or pomegranate peel meal (250-500 mg/kg). In the process of clean poultry production, efficacy of synbiotics (mixture of probiotics Bacillus subtilis and Bacillus amylo liquifaciens @ 106 cfu/g and mannan-oligosaccharides -–MOS @) 1% in diet), improved feed conversion ratio (FCR), immunity, and survivability of poults than those fed either prebiotics (mannan-oligosaccharides @ 1%) or probiotics (Bacillus subtilis and Bacillus amylo liquifaciens @ 106 cfu/g) in growing turkey poults (0-6 wk of age). Inclusion of Kappaphycus alvarezii and red sea-weed based formulations (AF-KWP) at 1.25% level in broiler diet improved performance, gut health (both microbial and structural), breast yield, physio-biochemical characteristics and reduction of microbiological counts in fresh and storage (14 d) meat. Animal physiology and reproduction Cattle Feed supplement comprising a source of energy, protein and an antimicrobial agent, increased average milk fat from 2.59 to 3.85%, and resulted in conception in 76% animals that had reproductive problems such as repeat breeding, delayed puberty and postpartum anestrus. The ‘Doublesynch’ and the ‘Estra-doublesynch’ estrous synchronization protocols along with fixed time artificial insemination were carried out at fields with more than 80% success in conception rate in problematic cows and buffaloes. Buffalo Species-specific remen extender: The average post- thaw motility and fertility of frozen-thawed buffalo spermatozoa are substantially low compared to that of cattle sperm. Over the decades, the protocols for cryopreserving buffalo semen were similar to that of cattle. There is a need to develop a species-specific semen extender for buffalo based on its sperm structure and seminal plasma composition. Cryopreservation induces significant bio-molecular changes in proteins and lipids of buffalo sperm and this may be one of the causes of reduced post-thaw motility and fertility of buffalo semen.