 There is an urgent need for R&D and design development to introduce in bamboo industry for sustainable use of the bamboo. Value Chain & Supply chain and transport optimization The bamboo and cane sector in the NE region has serious problems with respect to value due to the very high logistics and transportation costs. This is a peculiarity of the hilly region due to the geographical structure as well as the existing agreements on trade with India’s neighbouring countries in the region. Revamping institutional structure to achieve core objectives The need for institutional restructuring, in formulating any policy framework to bring about development in the entire NE Region of Indian Union, the legal perspective would address and deal with the following core issues: y Facilitate production of bamboo, cane and allied products. y Facilitate transportation and transit of bamboo, cane and allied product. y Facilitate and strengthen the terms of trade in favour of the producers and cultivators. y Facilitate and strengthen the institutional framework in favour of industrial products. y Promote as non plastic products. Enabling Regulatory Mechanism: Uniform Bamboo Policy for the NE region is needed – Key inputs from various states where Bamboo Institutional Mechanism is already in place other than State Bamboo Mission under NBM in other states like NBDA , APBRDA, MBDA, etc. Way forward y Enabling Bamboo Enterprise: Promotion of Start ups, Corpus funds, design and product design, capacity and skill, building, incentives and tax benefits, etc. y Enabling Manufacturing: Industrialized Handicrafts enterprises, Setting up of Bamboo Economic Zones, Bamboo Parks, Clusters, etc. y Enabling Marketing: Common branding, Bamboo Festivals, Expos, Eco Tourism, Home stays, etc. For further interaction, please write to: South Asia Bamboo Foundation, Guwahati, Assam, India Email: kamleshsalam@gmail.com Bamboo products Indian Horticulture 100 Rejuvenation of Jhum Lands through Bio-terracing In the hilly regions of Northeastern India, shifting cultivation, locally known as jhum or slash/burn agriculture, has been the predominant form of farming, relying on traditional knowledge. However, this practice has led to a significant decline in soil fertility, rendering it unsustainable, particularly with increasing population and subsequent rise in food demands. To address this issue, implementation of bio- terracing with the use of green-manuring species serves as a restorative measure to sustain soil fertility for agricultural purposes. It is important to note that soils in jhum areas are not only depleted of nutrients but also lack sufficient moisture, necessitating comprehensive soil conservation and improvement strategies. J HUM lands face a grave issue where burning of forests results in the loss of organic matter, nutrients, and microbial life, leading to soil heating.