 Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 239 Medicinal uses of Eclipta alba Plant, bark, leaf of bhangra (Eclipta alba) which contain alkaloid, ecliptine, nicotine, polyacetylenic thiophenes, glucosides are used as tonic emetic and purgative. Parabia et al. (2000) 240 Medicinal properties of Vajradanti Plant, leaf and root of khataseriya (Barleria prionitis) are the useful parts containing scutellarein, g-rhamnosylglucoside, irioidsm Barterin, Acetyl barterin. Plant and leaf act as expectorant in cattarrh. Leaf when chewed, cures toothache. Root paste heals boils and swelling. Parabia et al. (2000) 241 Medicinal uses of Cyperus alternifolius Tuber of galanchai (Cyperus alternifdius) contains odorous principle and is used as tonic, stimulant, astrigent. Parabia et al. (2000) 242 Medicinal uses of Psidium gauva The root bark, fruit, leaf of Psidium gauva is useful for medicinal purpose. The leaf contains essential oil, eugenol, resin, cellulose and volatile oil, The fruit is useful to cure laxative diseases. The bark of the plant used to cure diarrhoea, the leaf for curing wounds and ulcers and also arresting vomiting in animals. Parabia et al. (2000) 243 Medicinal uses of Heterocarpus marsupium (asna) Gum, leaf and stembark of Heterocarpus constitutes gum keno, kenotannic acid Stem bark and gum is used to cure diarrhoea, pyrosis, toothache, external application of leaf is useful to cure boils, sores and skin diseases, the leaf can be fed to the cattle. Parabia et al. (2000) 244 Medicinal uses of Punica granatum (anar) The root bark, stembark, root, seed, pulp and fresh juice of Punica granatum are used for curing various diseases in cattle. The root bark and stembark is used as astringent, antihelmentic, the seed is used for stomachache, pulp as cardiac tonic. The fruit juice is used for cooling. The bark is used to control tape worm and fruit is useful to control dysentery in animals. Parabia et al. (2000) 245 Medicinal uses of Randia dumatarium (arar/karhar) The fruit of Randia dumatarium plant contains saponin essential oil and acid resin, the fruit is used for irritating emetic, bark is used as astrigent, pulp as antihelminitc, abortificient, fruit pulp is used to control dysentery and bark is applied externally as anodyne, rheumatism. The root bark of the plant is used as insecticide and for boneache. Parabia et al. (2000) 225 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 246 Medicinal uses of Cordia dichotoma, C.latifolia, C.myxa Leaf, bark, flower, kernel, mucilage of fruit of lasora (Codia dichotoma) contain tannin, catharin, sugar, gum and ash are used as astrigent, demulcent, anthelmintic, diuretic, expectorant, dyspepsia, fever, ringworms, ulcers, prolapse of uterus/vagina and headache, affliction of urinary passage. Diseases of lungs, spleen and snake bite. Parabia et al.