 This practice is more prevalent in deep black soils with low rainfall, in regions of Western Maharastra or high rain fall areas of Madhya Pradesh (Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh). Sanghi (1993) 6 Testing of viability of seeds For testing the germination of crop, farmers put the seeds inside the petiole of cucumber leaves and close the cut portion of petiole. After 36 to 48 hr the seeds inside the petiole germinate (Gonda, Uttar Pradesh). Anonymous (2000c) 7 Hot water for better germination of paddy seeds Farmers immerse the seeds of paddy in hot water for a day. Soaked seeds are heaped on the ground. The entire heap is covered by neem leaves and small wheat straw for four days. Water is sprinkled frequently over the entire heap during these four days. After four days seeds germinate and are used for sowing in the nursery (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Anonymous (1991h) 8 Salt water solution for better germination of cumin seed A coat of salt water is applied to cumin seeds to ensure better germination. About 250 g of salt dissolved in a half litre of water is used for treating 10 kg of cumin seeds. This treatment is also believed to increase yield (Surendranagar, Gujarat). Sanghani (1997) 9 Improving germination of finger millet Goat penning practice is followed soon after sowing of fingermillet on land ploughed across the slope in Dongar (Orissa). Parasar (1994) 10 Soaking of paddy to remove chaff of paddy seed Soaking of paddy seeds is done when the chaff float on the surface of water. Water is drained and the seeds are taken in a gunny bag and the mouth of the gunny bag is covered by paddy straw for free flow of air inside. This is kept overnight to be broadcasted in the nursery fields on next morning (Irulas Nilgiris, Tamil Nadu). Karthikeyan and Chandra Kandan (1996) 11 Lime solution for better germination of groundnut Seeds of groundnut are smeared with lime solution before sowing. It is believed that it provides the necessary heat for early germination of groundnut seed (Junagarh, Gujarat). Reddy (1992) 19 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 12 To increase germination of crops Soaking the seeds overnight in water before sowing improves seed germination and crop stand (Dharwad, Karnataka). Anonymous (2000b) 13 Determining quantity and uniformity broadcasting of seed One handful of seed is uniformly broadcast by women of West Himalayan cold desert areas in three to four equal lots. The quantity of seeds is determined by the distance of furrows made during ploughing. For verification of properly spaced broadcasting a handful of soil is picked up at random from any part of the field and if in each pick there are seven seeds it is indicative of proper broadcasting (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 14 Removal of chaffy seeds before sowing Chaffy seeds are removed before sowing by immersing it in water (Nilgiri, Tamil Nadu).