 At Mulla para TDS, TSS, Magnesium, EC, Sodium, Alkalinity surpassed the limit and at Kali deh; TDS, TSS, Magnesium, EC, pH and Alkalinity crossed the standard limit. Three parameters exceeded the standard limit at Patel Nagar; they are TSS, EC and Alkalinity where double tanki colony showed total four parameters crossed the standard limit, namely D.O, TSS, EC and Sodium, respectively (Fig. 3). 3.2. Pearson correlation Pearson correlation analysis was used to identify the size of the relationship or correlation among two variables, as shown in Fig. 4. During PRM season, a significant association involving TH and Cl−in­ dicates that there was a decent chunk of soluble ion in the groundwater. Ca2+ and Mg2+ showed strong positive inter-parameter correlations with TH because water hardness is the result of the aforementioned ions aggregation, the relevance of the correlation itself is self-evidence. TSS, TDS and Mg2+ are all substantially linked with Cl−. SO4 2−is related to TDS, TSS, Ca2+and K+, indicating that salts are dissolved in groundwater [42]. This is caused mostly owing to geological sources such as bedrock but at the same time there is a substantial mixing of potential elements from the surface of the earth [43]. SO4 2−shows a low connection with Na+ and Cl−, but was substantially linked with calcium doses, indicating the existence of calcium chloride salts [42]. Water temperature showed negative correlation with each existing parameter. Mg2+ with TSS and Ca2+ presented weak to moderate positive correlation during pre-monsoon to post-monsoon. COD with TSS and Ca2+; CO3− with Ca2+, and SO4 2−; pH with temperature showed negative correlation during both the seasons [42]. The direction of the relationship remained constant though the strength of the correlation expressed seasonal variability. Reduced strength of correlation can be surmised that the percolation of rainwater during monsoon season dilutes the intensity of the cations and anions present in groundwater [44]. Fig. 4 demonstrates the density distribution of the sample data. Most of the data is normally displayed although few distribution curves were being skewed or bi-modal. The nature of data distribution remained roughly the same throughout the seasons. The correlation results remained statistically significant at different alpha-levels. 3.3. Piper diagram Piper diagrams (Fig. 5) were generated for the Aligarh city using the analytical data acquired from the hydro-chemical examination [45]. In the present study, water types were kept into the first two types. Most of the samples (42.10%) are plotted in the Ca–HCO3 field. 42.10% of the samples displayed mixed Ca–Mg–Cl type. Rest of them fall under the Na–Cl–SO4 (5.26%) and mixed Ca–Mg–HCO3 (10.52%) types. The study escorted during POM season shows that, dissolution of the min­ erals are the major processes during this period [44,46]. In this season, the results vary from the previous results.