 Sensory evaluation for consistency of each product Product Strongly Moderately Neither like nor Moderately Strongly Score/rank dislike (1) dislike (2) dislike (3) like (4) like (5) Namkeen jya 0 3 3 4 5 56 (I) Tea 2 5 4 2 2 42 (III) Coffee 1 4 3 4 3 49 (II) Table 7. Sensory evaluation for taste of each product Product Strongly Moderately Neither like nor Moderately Strongly Score/rank dislike (1) dislike (2) dislike (3) like (4) like (5) Namkeen jya 1 2 3 5 4 54 (I) Tea 0 3 4 4 4 54 (I) Coffee 1 3 6 2 3 49 (II)  ETHNIC FOOD The results of sensory evaluation made for taste suggest that namkeen jya is as good as tea (Table7). CONCLUSION The results of validation indicate that namkeen jya is a superior drink as compared to tea and coffee. The taste, flavour, consistency and appearance are liked by the local people. Besides being nutritional and tasty, it also gives protection against the common diseases like fever, cough, cold, and asthma. REFERENCES Amerine, M., Pangborn, R.M. and Roessler, E.B. 1966. Principles of Sensory Evaluation of Food. Academic Press, New York, USA. Meilgaard, M., Cicille, G. V. and Carr, B. T. 1991. Sensory Evaluation Techniques. CRC Press, Inc., USA. ETHNIC FOOD Code : 952 Title of the ITK : Liquor manufacture in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh Description of the ITK : Wine is prepared traditionally by the local people in some districts of Himachal Pradesh. The main raw material is fruits such as grapes (Vitis vinifera), wild apricot chulli (Prunus armeniaca), pears (Pyrus communis), apple (Pynus malus), wild almond behmi (Prunus delicis) etc. The fermented product of these fruits is distilled and then conserved by the people. Fruits like apple or pears are cut into pieces before putting for fermentation. Chulli fruits are dried on the roof after taking out the seeds. The fruits are then put in the drums. Generally the wooden drums are preferred for fermentation, as they keep the materials warm. Molasses are also used with the fruits. The drums are then tightly covered with wooden or stone lid. Opening the lid makes the judgement of fermentation. When the larva in the pulp dies, it means the fermentation is over. Drop of water inside the lid is other indication. Another way of judgement is that if a burning stick is taken on the pulp and if it extinguishes, the material is ready. The pulp is put in a metallic pitcher, which is covered with a slate of stone with a hole in the centre. This slate is used to avoid overflow of material during boiling. A metallic pan is kept on this slate, which also has a hole of the same size of that of slate. It has also a side pipe through which the condensed alcohol comes out. This utensil is covered with a bigger size metallic pan, which is cooled during the extraction. Two pipes, one inlet and other outlet open in this pan through which cold water falls on the pan and warm water goes out. The topmost pan is kept a bit slanting.