 The average performance for grain yield of the plants containing both the DTYs in homozygous conditions and Pup1 was superior to plants either devoid or carrying one or two QTLs. For evaluation and selection, F2 populations segregating for Pi-54, Pi2, Pi9, and Pup1 were also raised during kharif 2022. Comparative study of zinc responsive genes in contrasting rice genotype under zinc-deficient condition: The adaptive changes during early exposure to zinc-deficit conditions have not been adequately studied in contrasting rice genotypes differing in their Crop Improvement icar annual report 2022-23 51 seed zinc content. Therefore, two contrasting rice genotypes, BKS 41 and Sadabahar, differing in their seed zinc-content (18 and 44 ppm respectively) were tested in hydroponics with two different doses of zinc (5 and 0.005 µM) and the effect of Zn deficiency was evaluated at morpho-physiological, biochemical and molecular levels. Some important morphological traits such as shoot length, crown root number, root traits (length, root hair zone and density) relative chlorophyll content and total dry weight were analyzed. Genotype BKS-41 (high seed zinc) showed higher shoot length, root length, longer root hair zone, high root hair density, higher relative chlorophyll content and dry weight as compared to Sadabahar (low seed zinc) under zinc deficit condition showing its physiological superiority over Sadabahar. peanut: Raffinose family oligosaccharides (RFOs), generally regarded as antinutrients, also play an important role in plant physiology. A study was conducted to identify regulatory genes associated with RFOs biosynthesis in peanut (Arachis hypogaea) and to study their spatiotemporal gene expression. RNA- seq was performed in immature seed stage (S1) and matured seed stage (S2) of three contrasting varieties: TG37A (high RFOs) and GG7 (low RFOs), from the Spanish group and Girnar 2 (high RFOs), from the Virginia group. The transcriptomic data were validated through qRT-PCR, which suggested the temporal and tissue-specific gene expression of different families of RFOs biosynthetic genes in the contrasting genotypes. Although profiling of RFOs sugars showed stachyose as the major component of RFOs (more than 90%), gene expression suggested the regulatory roles of Raffinose Synthase (RS) instead of Stachyose Synthase (StS) for the differential accumulation of RFOs. Among RS, significant differential and seed-specific expression of AhRS14 and AhRS6 indicated their regulatory role, while constitutive expression of AhGolS6 and AhSS7 at all seed stages suggested their important roles during seed maturity. Selective expression of homeologous genes also highlights their evolutionary significance during allopolyploidization. The identified genes can further be validated in a larger population and in other legumes to develop low RFOs varieties, thus improving the overall nutritional quality and solving the discomforts associated with their consumption.