 Keywords: bishopweed, dugjeera, gas trouble Shri Sudharkarbhai Kochubhai Goli, Vanki Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Varkhadyabhai Kalubhai, Harapada Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3071 Treatment of gastric trouble in catties 3072 Treatment of gastric trouble in catties by bakena leaves and barley 3073 Treatment of gastric problem in animals by using black pepper, onion, nausadar and ghee 3074 Treatment for stomach pain in cattle and buffalo Cattle owners of village Kamua Kala of district Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh prepare paste of 10 g onion, 10 g black pepper and mustard oil. This dose is given twice a day to control gastric trouble. Keywords: onion, black pepper, gastric trouble Cattle owners of Rajpuri village of Bareilly district, Uttar Pradesh prepare a paste of 500 g bakena leaves and 500 g barley and it is mixed in 1 litre water. It is given 3-4 times daily to the affected animal to cure gastric trouble. Keywords: bakena leaves, barley, gastric trouble, mustard oil This ITK is followed in village Sundyaba of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. For the treatment of gastric problem, a paste is prepared by mixing 10 g nausadar, 5 g black pepper 250 g onion and 250 g desi ghee. This paste is given 2-3 times daily to the animal. The gastric problem is controlled. Keywords: gastric problem, nausadar, black pepper, onion, desi ghee Villagers of Khohara of district Karauli in Rajasthan are using this ITK since 10-15 years. About 250 g choti harda (Terminalia chebula) are fried in 50 g ghee and ground to powder form. This powder is mixed with 100 g edible soda and 3 doses are prepared, for morning, mid-day and evening. For each dose, 1 litre water is taken in big utensil and 1 dose is mixed in it. This is given to the animal to get relief from stomach pain. Keywords: stomach pain, choti harda, edible soda, ghee Shri Inderjit Singh, Sarpanch, village Kamua Kala, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Brij Lai, S/o Shri Kare Ram. Rajpuri (Nawada) Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Chheda Lai, S/o Shri Dodraj, Sundyaba, Haphijganj, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Nathya Nath, S/o Shri Bhora Nath, Khohara, Todabhim, dist. Karauli (Rajasthan) 321 611 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3075 Treatment for stomach ailment in cattle by feeding wild tobacco 3076 Remedy for tympany disease in animals 3077 Remedy to cure tympany in animals Stomach ailment in cattle is caused by eating moist grass. Cattle show symptoms of tympany of rumen, stop feeding and show profuse salivation etc. For treatment of this ailment, sharakhu (wild tobacco) is crushed and boiled in water for 2—3 min.