 All high nutrient demanding crops should precede and follow legume dominated crop combination. Rotation of pest host and non pest host crops helps in controlling soil borne diseases and pests. It also helps in controlling weeds. Crop rotation is the backbone of organic farming practices. To keep the soil healthy and to allow working of natural microbial systems, crop rotation is a must. Manuring and soil enrichment India has a great potential of using residues of crops and straw of cereals and pulses for recycling nutrients in organic farming. Crop residues when inoculated with fungal species improve physicochemical properties of soil and crop yields. During conversion period, soil fertility can be improved and maintained initially through use of organic inputs like well decomposed organic manure/ vermicompost, green manure and biofertilizers in appropriate quantity. Plant biomass, FYM, cattle dung manure, enriched compost, bio dynamic compost, cow-pat-pit compost are key sources of on-farm inputs. Among off-farm inputs, important components are non- edible oil cakes, poultry manure, biofertilizers, mineral grade rock phosphate and lime etc. Organic manure: It is obtained from biological sources (plant, animal and human residues). Organic manure helps in increasing crop growth directly by improving the uptake of humic substances and indirectly by promoting soil productivity by increasing availability of major and minor plant nutrients through soil microorganisms. Bulky organic manure includes compost, FYM and green manure having less nutrients in comparison to concentrated organic manure. Large quantities of waste material (vegetable refuse, weeds, stubble, straw, sugarcane trash, sewage, sludge, animal waste, human and industrial refuse) can be converted into compost by an aerobic decomposition. Farm Yard Manure (FYM) refers to the well decomposed combination of dung, urine, farm litter and leftover materials (roughages or fodder). Green manuring is the practice of adding organic matter to the soil by incorporating undecomposed green plant tissues for improving soil health. The green manure crop (legumes) supplies organic matter and additional nitrogen. Commonly used green manure crops are sunhemp (Crotalaria juncea), dhaincha (Sesbania aculeata), cowpea, cluster bean, senji (Melilotus parviflora, Vigna sinensis), berseem Indian Farming January 2022 35 (Trifolium alexandrium) etc. Vermicompost: Vermicompost is organic manure or compost produced by the use of earthworms that generally live in soil, eat organic matter and excrete it in digested form. It is rich in macro and micronutrients, growth hormones and immobilized micro flora essential for plant growth. Concentrated organic manure: Oilcakes, blood meal, fishmeal, meat meal, and horn and hoof meal are organic in nature. These are made from raw materials of animal or plant origin, and contain higher percentage of vital plant nutrients as compared to bulky organic manures.