 Identification and transfer of gene influencing production and disease resistance. 6.5 VETERINARY MICROBIOLOGY Unit 1: General Bacteriology Milestones in the development of microbiology, Classification and nomenclature of bacteria. Structure, function and chemistry of bacterial nuclear apparatus. Cytoplasm, Intracellular granules, Cell wall, Cytoplasmic membrane, Mesosomes, Capsule, Flagella, fimbriae, Endospore, Protoplasts, Spheroplasts, L-forms, Involution forms. Bacterial stains, staining and microscopy. Growth and nutritional requirements of bacteria. Bacterial enzymes. Respiration in bacteria. Carbohydrate protein, fat and nucleic acid metabolism in bacteria. Reproduction and growth phase of bacteria. Effects of chemical and physical agents and antibiotics. Bacterial variations including transduction, transformation and conjugation. Bacterial vaccines and toxins. The role of microbial toxins in the pathogenesis of diseases; Biochemical and biological characteristics of toxins produced by various bacteria. Toxin producing Gram-positive and Gram- negative bacteria. Properties and clinical conditions produced by different bacterial toxins. Unit 2: Systematic Bacteriology Systematic study of bacteria belonging to genera Borrelia, Leptospira, Campylobacter, Pseudomonas, 65 Brucella, Bordetella, Escherichia, Citrobacter, Salmonella, Shigella, Klebsiella, Enterobacter, Proteus, Vibrio, Haemophilus, Staphylococus, Streptococcus, Bacillus, Clostridium, Listeria, Erysipelothrix, Corynebacterium, Nocardia, Rickettsia, Chlamydia, Mycoplasma, Acholeplasma, Spiroplasma, Anaeroplasma and Thermoplasma, Rhodococcus, Mycobacterium and Neisseria. Unit 3: General Virology Historical development of virology. Evolution, classification and nomenclature of viruses. Biophysical and biochemical characteristics of viruses. Cultivation of viruses and their growth pattern in cell culture, embryonated eggs and experimental animals. Purification and concentration of viruses. Qualitative and quantitative assay of viruses. Viral replication. Virus-host cell relationships. Replication strategies of animal viruses and molecular pathogenesis for selected viral system. Latent, persistent and chronic viral infections. Study of genetic variability of animal viruses through use of monoclonal antibodies, autoimmunity, immunosuppression and viral mutation in persistence infections. General principles of laboratory diagnosis of viral diseases. Epidemiology and pathology of viral infections. Immune mechanism in viral diseases. Interference and interferon. Viral vaccines, point of action of antiviral molecules during the replication cycle of a virus and search for new antiviral compounds, viruses and gene therapy. Chemotherapy of viral infections.