 The plant is suitable for beds/ as a potted plant in the open during the rainy season. Pollinators like stingless bees and carpenter bees are attracted towards the flowers. The plant is seed propagated. Begonia dipetala Graham Commonly known as two-petal begonia, this is a member of the Begoniaceae family. Stem is thick and reddish. Leaves are green, obliquely ovate, semi- heart-shaped, pointed at the tip, and have a red sinus. Leaves are with many trichomes. Flowers are pink. Both male and female flowers consist of two tepals. The plant is suitable as a potted plant indoors as well as in shade. The plant is propagated through leaf/ shoot cuttings. SUMMARY The plant genetic wealth of the hotspots of biodiversity particularly the Western Ghats, remains under-exploited for landscaping activities. There are innumerable plants with ornamental potential which are suitable for various landscaping aspects. People are unaware of many such native plants suitable for landscaping. A good number of native plants grow well in partial or complete shade which makes them the most suitable candidate plants for landscaping in humid tropical plains where trees need to be planted as the major framework of the landscape for control of the intense heat and glare during summer. Most of the native plants also tolerate the canopy dripping during the rainy season which is also an added advantage for making the landscape colourful in such shady situations. Above all, the real indigenous ornamentals will be conserved from being vulnerable/endangered due to severe habitat destruction. For further information, please contact: Department of Floriculture and Landscaping, College of Agriculture, Kerala Agricultural University, Thrissur, 680656, India. *Corresponding author: Sreelatha.u@kau.in Indian Horticulture 34 Organic Microgreen: Production Procedure for Cold Desert Himalaya Zone Microgreens, the miniature plants are often referred to as “Superfoods” due to their significant nutritional properties characterized by high levels of micronutrients and bioactive compounds. While the need for food and nutritional security is the most fundamental necessity for mankind, the distinctive geography of the Himalayan State like Sikkim poses a challenge of limited access to fresh vegetables and fruits, coupled with high prices. This issue becomes especially crucial in regions characterized by harsh conditions and high altitudes, viz. Mangan, Lachen, Lachung, Kupup, Nathang Valley, inhabited by local communities and serve as deployment zones for a significant portion of the Indian armed forces. In such adverse scenarios, microgreen as addressing issues of food and nutritional security becomes a humanitarian call for all. M ICROGREENS are known for their physical characteristics, including vibrant colours, crispy texture, and a fresh and tender appearance.