 Training and capacity building: The Academy organized 80 capacity building programs during November 2021 to October 2022 benefitting about 8076 participants to cater diverse capacity needs of professionals of Research Management, Scientific, Technical and Administrative cadres of ICAR and Faculty members of Agricultural Universities (AUs). Academy offers Foundation Courses for the newly recruited faculty of SAUs to improve teaching, research and extension competencies. Digital initiatives: Center for Open and Lifelong Learning in Agriculture at NAARM organized MOOCs in Education Management and developed more than 150 video-lectures. Total 21 modules of content have been developed for MOOC on Digital Teaching Techniques (9 videos) and MOOC on Digital Assessment and Evaluation Methodologies (13 videos) with interactivity. Since November 2021, Academy offered two MOOC programmes and benefitted about 3601 learners across the country. Awards and recognition: ICAR-NAARM was awarded Sardar Patel Outstanding ICAR Institution Award 2021 (large institute category) by Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare under the broad category of National Awards of Excellence for Agricultural Institutions on ICAR foundation day celebration (July 16, 2022). Start-ups and agripreneurship: The a-IDEA, ICAR-NAARM organized the launching ceremony of AGRI UDAAN 5.0 Food and Agribusiness Accelerator Programme on 06 August, 2022 with the support of NABARD. The programme was presided by Dr Ch. Srinivasa Rao, Director ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad and Mr. Jayesh Ranjan, IAS, Principal Secretory, Department of Industries and Commerce, Government of Telangana. Road shows were conducted in four cities, i.e. Kolkata, Bengaluru, Delhi and Pune. National level ideation competition ‘AGGNITE 2.0’was launched to motivate the students in entrepreneurship in agriculture and educate them on start-up ecosystem and entrepreneurship skill-sets. 40 applications were shortlisted from 114 applications received and finally 3 applications participated in the final winning. ‘KRISHIBOOT’ is an incubation program aimed to attract start-ups or individuals who are in the ideation/ early start-up stage to get incubated at a-IDEA. Out of 119 pan India applications received, 22 were selected in the final round for incubation and 14 on-boarded by signing MoU. The a-IDEA invited innovators working on innovative Idea/POC/Prototype stage to apply for ‘NIDHI PRAYAS’ grant of up to ₹10 lakhs in the field of agriculture and allied sectors. ❑ Human Resource Development icar annual report 2022-23 159 14. Social Science Effectiveness of farmers’ own risk management strategies: Farmers face multiple climate risks. They follow several measures, traditional and modern ex-ante and ex-post their occurrence to reduce their adverse effects.