 It is of a premium market segment, so farmers can get returns from the crop. It will cater to the needs of the people who are health cautious and looking for nutritious food. This variety can be dried as tomato resins which could be another market segment for post-harvest researchers and industry people. Golden yellow cherry tomatoes can be marketed @ ₨ 500-600 per kg in premium markets. For further interaction, please write to: P K Singh (Principal Scientist), Center for Protected Cultivation Technology, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012. *Corresponding author’s email: pksingh128@ gmail.com Pusa Cherry Tomato-1 Pusa Cherry Tomato-1 is the first red coloured cherry tomato variety developed by IARI, New Delhi. It is suitable for growing in North Indian plains under protected and open field conditions. Its average vine length is about 9-12 m under protected conditions. Fruit berries are round shaped with uniform ripening pattern and deep red colour. It has 18.5 average flower truss per plant. A truss bears about 35-45 fruits. The average fruit weight is ~ 5-7 g. The fruits get ready for first harvest in 70-75 days and crop lasts for 9-10 months. It is also tolerant to root-knot nematode. Average fruit yield is 4-5 kg/plant. No cracking of berries up to picking stage. Its fruits contain 5.4 mg/100 g FW lycopene, 20.7 mg/100 g FW ascorbic acid, 0.43 acidity and 10.40oB TSS. This red coloured cherry tomato variety is highly acceptable by the consumers and farmers because of its fruit shape, colour and nutritive value. Source: IARI, New Delhi Indian Horticulture 16 P K Singh*, J K Tiwari, Veena Joshi, Sandeep Kumar Lal, Selvakumar R, Jugender Kumar, Anil Kumar and Indra Mani Prospects T he winged bean is popularly known as ‘One Species Supermarket’ because of its high nutritionally rich green pods, tuberous roots, leaves, immature and mature seeds. Leaves are eaten like spinach, flowers as salad, tubers as raw or processed food and seeds are used in different forms of processed food. Owing to its vining nature and nitrogen fixation ability, it used as a cover crop and also incorporated into rotation or intercropping systems. As such, winged bean could be a good candidate for diversifying diets to improve nutritional security, based on complex and more sustainable agricultural systems. Besides nutritional qualities, winged bean is a potential climatic resilient crop for adaptation in suboptimal weather conditions, like drought, flood, heat and biotic stresses as compared to other major staple crops. Increasing awareness about the role of agro- biodiversity in sustainability, socio-economic resilience and human health has resulted in re-diversifying agro-biodiversity through utilization of neglected and underutilised crop species.