 The following section presents an overview of literature on UAVs and its applications in agriculture. Section 3 provides a summary of the barriers for adopting UAVs, as identified in the extant literature. The Fuzzy Delphi and Fuzzy AHP methods used to analyse the identified barriers are discussed in section 4. Section 5 presents the results of the empirical analysis. Section 6 offers a discussion and a roadmap to promote the adoption of UAVs for precision agriculture. Section 7 concludes the paper and presents the limitations and future research scope. 2. Role of UAVs in agriculture The emerging literature on the role of UAVs in agriculture is pre­ sented broadly under various themes including crop health monitoring, water stress monitoring, spraying, and miscellaneous covering other potential applications of UAVs in agriculture. Crop health monitoring: Multi-spectral data of a vineyard collected using an UAV helped understand crop heterogeneity based on Normal­ ized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), as confirmed by evidence from field studies that was in line with the outcomes of image-based classi­ fication [16]. NDVI of a rice crop, evaluated with the help of radio-controlled helicopter, was used as a parameter to estimate the yield demonstrating the data collected using UAVs is a reliable alter­ native to satellite images [17]. Wide range of Vegetation Indices (VI), computed using the data obtained from UAVs, assisted in the quantita­ tive and qualitative evaluations of vegetation cover and growth dy­ namics [18]. An UAV developed in-house, capable of capturing multispectral images, was used to determine various spectral indices such as the Optimized Soil Adjusted Vegetation Index (OSAVI), Soil Adjusted Vegetation Index (SAVI), and Enhanced Normalized Difference Vegetation Index which helped in the effective farm management [19]. A UAV weighing 400 g with a 250-band hyperspectral sensor, helped to estimate the chlorophyl content in rice paddies accurately in the pres­ ence of unstable illuminations. These maps help in precision farming aiding to delineate the regions requiring additional fertilisers [20]. Similar approach can be adopted to determine the nitrogen content in rice crops [21]. Water stress monitoring: Instantaneous and seasonal Crop Water Stress Index within a vineyard was estimated using high resolution thermal images collected using an UAV and it was noted that the esti­ mates are comparable to the stem water potential and stomatal conductance measured from field studies indicating the effectiveness of the UAV survey [22]. UAV falling under small category mounted with multi-spectral camera effectively (91 ± 7% accuracy) classified citrus orchards farm on the basis of water stress levels [23]. Similar payload was mounted to Vulcan Hexacopter to determine the water stress and health of pomegranate crops aiding water management within the agricultural land [24].