 d) In order to avoid hardship to the students, it is requested that the university may provide advance monthly fellowship to the African students from the corpus fund available with the university. This advance may later be adjusted from the fellowship grant provided by ICAR/DARE under this programme [Action: All VCs] Agenda 5: Education Planning & Development: Issues & Progress Agenda 5.1: EPD Activities: An update Dr. C. Devakumar, ADG (EPD) presented the agenda. Vetting of Civil Plan and estimate of any work: Any civil work (new or repair) exceeding the cost of Rs. 10 lakhs must be vetted by Dir. (Works), ICAR. He presented the list of universities from which compliance of this action was pending. His presentation contained the following facts and suggestions:  Many of the universities have not sent their AUC and demands for funds of NTS & RAWE.  A few universities have not claimed the library grant.  Responding to the time line indicated by the DDG (Edn.) for the submission of requisite document such as half yearly and annual reports, demand of grant and UCs/AUCs, many universities responded positively but all must comment to the same.  Compliance by the universities can be improved with better follow up and governance. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 5.2: High Power Review Team to study the impact of ICAR Development Grant during X and XI Plans ADG (EPD) informed that High Power Review Team under the chairmanship of Dr. S. L. Mehta, former Vice Chancellor, MPUAT, Udaipur was appointed by DG, ICAR vide letter no. F.No.7(15)/2007-EPD dated 22/6/2010. He thanked the universities for sending the proforma for this purpose separately for X and XI Plans. He informed the committee so far visited 22 universities, inspected the facilities created out of development grant, interacted with the cross section of the students and faculty and the interim report was great use in impressing the Planning Commission about the achievements made out of the ICAR development grant.. The committee is expected to meet for a mid-term review. He urged the universities to submit the following information with respect to X and XI Plans so that a comprehensive report could be prepared and submitted. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 5.3: Agri-sports and Agri-fest (2012-13) The XII Agri-sports is being organised by the Dr. PDKV, Akola on 16-19 Feb., 2012. The XII Agri- fest slotted for 2011-12 could not be organised by GBPUAT, Pantnagar. KVAFSU, Bidar and JNKVV, Jabalpur agreed to organise the Agri-sport and Agri-fest respectively, during the year 2012 -13. UAS, Dharwad and AAU, Jorhat have offered to host Agri-sports and Agri-fest, respectively in the year 2013-14. There is already an expression of interest for hosting Agri-sport in 2014-15 by DBSKKV, Dapoli. [Action: KVAFSU, Bidar/ JNKVV, Jabalpur/ DBSKKV, Dapoli] Agenda 5.