 Other nonagricultural vegetation includes invasive shrubs like Prosopis juliflora or Lantana camara, and other native or non-native tree plantations planted under afforestation initiatives (Ratnam et al., 2016). Traditional annual crop cultivation in the region follows an asynchronous cycle to optimize the usage of limited water and soil resources. This is achieved through seasonal crop rotation, as grams, groundnut, soybean, sorghum (monsoon), and cotton are cultivated during the monsoon or Kharif season, while win- ter pulses, namely chickpeas, lentils, and pigeon peas, along with sorghum (winter) and onion are cultivated during the winter or Rabi season. Sugarcane, a semi-perennial cash crop, dominates in the region. Three varieties of sugarcane are planted in the region during different times of the year—Adsali (June or July), preseasonal (October), and sea- sonal (December or January) all of which require between 12 and 18 months to complete a single cultivation cycle (Dubey et al., 2018). The sugarcane cultivation area has increased since 1998 at the expense of the annual (Kharif and Rabi) crop types (Lee et al., 2020; Upreti & Singh, 2017) (Figure 2). Bird surveys We chose our study region and survey design based on a pilot study in winter 2021/2022 with the following objec- tives: (1) Capture and balance the land use variability in our study region with fragmented savanna grasslands dominating in the west and cropland dominating in the east (Figure 1b) (2) Secure enough available locations for point counts in the study region that have mixed land ownership mainly divided into private land and forest department land with unreliable access or permissions; (3) select survey locations in areas where surveyors were available; and (4) choose survey locations that are logisti- cally reachable and safe in the morning or evening, given the short time windows available for surveys (it gets very hot after 9:00 am and dark by 6:30 pm after which bird activity/visibility drops drastically). Based on the pilot study, we used a grid of 3 km2 cells over the study region (Figure 1b) and sampled 150 cells using a stratified- systematic unaligned sampling method. In total, we were able to access 83 cells and conducted 371 point counts (Figure 1b) in December 2022 and January 2023. This is the period when resident species and migratory birds from the Central Asian Flyway, including Western Sibe- ria, Central Asia, and northern parts of the Indian sub- continent, are present, in addition to the resident Indian species (Appendix S1: Figure S2). In each cell, we conducted point counts at 3–10 point locations, separated by a minimum distance of 300 m (Sutherland et al., 2008) and usually near roads and field borders, as field access was often restricted due to private and government land ownership (Figure 1c). All surveys were carried out dur- ing the peak bird activity from 6:30 to 9:30 am and 4:00 to 6:30 pm and only in good weather.