 • Developed canal delivery schedules for different reaches in commands of arid, semi‐arid, sub‐humid and humid situations of the country to be operated by Water Resources departments. Proposed canal delivery schedules ensure crop water demand and help in equitable distribution of water in different reaches. Also moisture available for subsequent timely sown crop is ensured with modified operational schedules. • Developed water management technologies/strategies to suit water supply situations in different command areas. Alternate crop plans for existing water supply situation are suggested in Mula, Malprabha, Jayakwadi, Chambal, Lower Bhavani, Ramnagar and Tawa command areas. Proposed alternate crop plans help enhance crop plans help enhance crop productivity by 15‐20% in kharif and 21‐27% in rabi season. www.icar.org.in 78 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management • The water management technologies consisting of optimum irrigation schedules, proper land‐layouts, appropriate method of irrigation and judicious use of other production inputs such as quality seeds, adequate and balanced fertilizers and plant protection measures have been demonstrated through on‐farm research programme of the project in 18 canal command areas in entire country, two tube‐well command areas, one tank command area. Results showed that improved water management practices increase 15 to 37% crop yields and save 28 to 40% irrigation water. This water saving can help enhance irrigated area by 15 to 17%. It is estimated that the improvement water management technologies can be used on 10.3 Mha area in the country. Moreover, similar results were achieved in high rainfall and hilly areas adopting related important water management technology parameters. Design and of evaluation of gravity and pressurized irrigation systems> • Techno‐economic feasibility of drip irrigation in fruits and vegetable crops and high water requiring cash crops such as sugarcane and banana has been established in arid and semi‐ arid regions of the country. Drip irrigation technologies were evolved suitably along with other inputs for old established plantation crops and orchard crops. Benefits of drip irrigation wereobtained in terms of 20 to 40% water saving, 15 to 20% yield increase. • Drip fertigation technology has been developed refined and standardized for cash crops such as sugarcane, cotton, banana, groundnut, fruits and vegetables in different agroclimatic conditions of the country. Drip fertigation saved 20 to 40% irrigation water, 25 to 50% of N and K fertilizers and obtained 17 to 25% higher yield over surface irrigation. • Developed drip irrigation technology to suit its adoption in intensive cropping systems without winding‐up the drip irrigation system. This system is successfully demonstrated and deployed on farmers fields in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka states.