 Mangala Rai, Director General of ICAR during 2003-2009, public organizations collaborated with farmers’ groups, the private sector, and other stakeholders to accelerate and sustain the transformation of Indian agriculture in support of poverty alleviation and income generation. The ICAR-industry Dr. Rajendra Singh Paroda (1994-2001) Dr. Panjab Singh (2001-02) Dr. Mangala Rai (2003-09) Dr. Virender Lal Chopra (1992-94) Indian Agriculture after Independence 414 collaboration and scientist-entrepreneur collaboration were implemented through the National Agricultural Innovation Project and the National Fund for Basic, Strategic and Frontier Application Research in Agriculture (NFBSFARA), renamed later as National Agricultural Science Fund (NASF) following the recommendations of Mashelkar Committee in 2005. He is also credited for establishing many new institutions, viz., ICAR- National Institute of Abiotic Stress Management (NIASM) ICAR-National Institute of Biotic Stress Management (NIBSM); Seed Science (ICAR- Indian Institute of Seed Science); ICAR-National Institute for Agriculturally Important Microorganisms (ICAR- NIAIM); ICAR-Indian Institute of Agriculture Biotechnology (ICAR-IIAB); & ICAR- Indian Institute of Vegetable Research were also established. Dr. S. Ayyappan was the Secretary, DARE, and Director General of ICAR, during 2010-2016. He is credited with bringing Indian fisheries to a level of excellence in basic science and fish commercialization that is unparalleled anywhere in the world. His contributions to the organization, with foresight, innovation and partnerships, both at national and global levels were commendable. Under his leadership, the technological advancements in fisheries and aquaculture led to significant increase in the production and productivity. A new era of establishing Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) like institutions was planned for the eastern States of Jharkhand and Assam to bring green revolution in eastern India. This period also saw upgradations of many ICAR directorates and NRCs into full-fledged institutions with inclusivity. Borlaug’ Institute for South Asia got established in India with its research centers in Madhya Pradesh and Bihar. The Council under the current leadership of Dr. Trilochan Mohapatra as Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR has taken a laser- sharp focus on driving Indian agriculture to meet ever-increasing challenges by leveraging the most recent advances in science and technology, such as digital technologies and smart farming, as well as the most recent biotechnological advances such as CRISPAR, among others. Thus, with strong science leadership, the council has been proactively transforming itself to the nation’s ever-changing needs and evolved into the World’s largest agricultural research and education system.