 Keywords: leaf juice, ridge gourd, yok gall, wounds Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar Maharashtra) 413 722 2621 Use of onion and butter for treating the wounds in the neck of bull While ploughing, neck of bull is wounded. Farmers of Theong tehsil of Shimla district of Himachal Pradesh take 200 g onion and fry it on the fire by adding 10 g butter into it. Its’ paste is applied on the wound of the bull for two to three times in a day. Keywords: onion, butter, wound of neck Shri Deep Ram Verma Jagheri, Theog, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 201 2617 Use of mouth exudation of grasshopper for wound healing in cattle The exudation i.e. oozing out product from the mouth of short horn grass hopper (Ocdiopoida himalayana, Spindonotus spp., Bryodoma spp.) is collected after irritation. This oozed product is used as a healing agent of wounded area in cattle as well as in human. This ITK is practiced in the hilly area of Solan district of Himachal Pradesh. Keywords: wounds, short horn grasshopper Shri Santosh Kumar Junior Research Fellow, Z.S.I Solan (Himachal Pradesh) 2601 Use of turmeric for curing injury in animals Animal may suffer from various kinds of injuries. Some severe injuries, if not properly attended, may prove fatal. Turmeric is very effective as external application and helps in healing the animals and curing of injuries, inflicted in any part of animal body e.g. horn, foot etc. For treatment of injury, turmeric is ground in powder form and then mixed with mustard oil. The paste is applied on the wounds. This treatment is Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collec- tion, Documentation and  prevalent in Dandi village of Udrana panchayat in Doda district of Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: curing injury, healing the wounds, turmeric, mustard oil Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2563 Healing of wounds in animals with churi The roots of churi, a wild growing herb, are dried and powdered. The powder is applied to the wounds of the animals. This traditional measure is reported to be quite effective in healing the wounds of animals and is being adopted in and around various villages of Bhaderwah tehsil in Doda district of Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: churi root powder, wound Communicated by: Dr M. D. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricul- tural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2582 Animal urine for cure of local injuries In this practice, animal urine is sprinkled on local injuries of the animals and it helps in bringing about speedy recovery of the injuries.