 R Ramesh, Attache (Agriculture) Embassy of India, Rome to Ministry of External Affairs is reproduced as such. The FAO COAG (1–5 October 2018) reviewed the proposal presented by the Govt. of India to establish observance of the International Year of Millets 2023 and decided to submit draft conference resolutions for considerations and endorsement by the 160th session of FAO council (3–7, December 2018) for further adoption by the 41st session of the FAO conference (22–29, June 2019). October 2018 COAG/2018/17/Rev1 This document can be accessed using the Quick Response Code on this page; an FAO initiative to minimize its environmental impact and promote greener communications. Other documents can be consulted at www.fao.org MX753 COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE Twenty-sixth Session Rome, 1 - 5 October 2018 Proposal for an International Year of Millets Executive Summary Millets are often called "Nutri-Cereals" due to their high nutritional content compared to the more commonly grown cereals; wheat, rice or corn. When millets are included in diets, human and animal health is significantly improved, including that of mothers and their young. Here Millets may encompass a diverse group of cereals that include pearl, proso, foxtail, barnyard, little, kodo, browntop, finger and Guinea millets plus fonio, sorgum (or great millet) and teff. Millets were among the first plants that were domesticated and have served as a traditional staple crop for millions of farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa and Asia. Millets can grow on poor soils with little or no inputs, are resistant or tolerant to many crop diseases and pests and can survive adverse climatic conditions. The genetic diversity of millets offer opportunities for economic development through income generating activities in the food sector or on niche markets for specific professional applications (therapeutics, pharmaceuticals, specialty chemistry). To respond to the challenges posed today by increasing populations and associated food insecurity and changes in climate, the Government of India is seeking FAO support to the next agenda of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), to adopt the proposal for an International Year of Millets (Annex). The Government of India recently increased the Minimum Support Price (MSP) of millets by 50 percent of cost of production to achieve the national commitment of doubling farmers’ income by 2022. The Union Government has also declared 2018 as National Year of Millets in the country and millets have featured in recent initiatives such as the Adaptation of African Agriculture (AAA) and programmes such as the Technologies for African Agricultural Transformation (TAAT) funded by the African Development Bank. While millet cultivation has been historically widespread, there is a current need to promote the nutritional and ecological benefit of millets to consumers, producers and decision makers and to improve food sector linkages to better reward growers.