 All the weeds are cut from the base or uprooted and taken separately to the open space. Processing: y Sorting of weeds: Weeds are then sorted and kept separately at small distances from each other to avoid mixture. y Drying: All the sorted weeds are then spread on the floor under the shade condition for natural drying. This is done carefully as weeds tend to dry earlier than plants and over-drying could lead to deterioration of the quality. The samples should be dried from all the sides carefully. y Storage: The dried weed materials should be filled up in the gunny bags and kept away in the proper storage facility like clean and rodents free godowns to avoid quality deterioration. Value addition: This is an optional step for small and marginal farmers as it involves series of processes to make the dried material ready to sell in the market at an attractive price. After drying the weed samples, they are then converted to the powder form for the packaging and distribution. Following steps are involved in this process. y Grinding: Dried samples are ground by using mortar and pestle or other automated machineries depending upon the availability. First course grinding of the samples is done followed by fine powder preparation. To keep the quality of the material intact, it is important to avoid over-heating of the samples. y Packaging: Fine ayurvedic powder of the weeds are then filled in the plastic bags of different sizes and sealed properly. The product is then ready for the sale. R U Solanki, N K Chavda, A S Thounaojam, R I Chaudhary and K V Patel* Research Indian Horticulture 38 Selling: Selling of medicinal products in Gujarat is a little bit tricky as the stable market for buying and selling medicinal products is developing at its own pace. So, farmers have to be patient and vigilant about the market demands in order to select and produce medicinal products. Farmers have to study nearby markets for the availability of better prices in order to avoid the losses due to transportation to distant places. y Farmers or a group of farmers, can also go for exporting the materials by contacting local exporters Weeds as a medicinal plant Punarnava Indian Pennywort Ardusa Shankhpushpi Puncture Vine Bhringraj Rosary Pea Clitoria Nut Grass Bhumi Amla Brahmi Chicory September–October 2023 39 and agencies. Also, now-a-days farmers can contact directly to the buyers from other countries via internet. Exporting the materials is a tedious process but involves huge profits if the buyer agrees to buy the whole available quantity. For this, farmers have to be ready for thorough quality inspections and paperwork. y In this context, Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research Station, AAU, Anand is making continuous and promising efforts to encourage the farmers by helping them sell their produce at beneficial rates by organizing farmers training programmes and buyer seller meets.