 The low glycemic, sugar controlling capability of banana flour has to be rightly marketed to enhance the demand for banana based products. yy Ripe banana could also be used for making dehydrated fruits popularly known as “banana fig” with its fig like taste. This product is highly stable and energy packed thereby could be promoted through giving them to kids in noon meal schemes and to defence personnel other than improving the export market. yy Using banana wastes for the production of innovative products like nutraceuticals, bio colourants, fructans and developing synbitoic foods could pave way for the secondary agriculture. Exploitation of banana wastes and fibre for non-food applications like bio film, edible film, personal hygienic products, handicrafts, and textiles, composite boards will add additional income besides reducing the environmental pollution and carbon foot prints. Conclusion Banana being a very popular fruit in the world market has a great diversity of health benefitting nutrients. Not just the fruit, every part of banana plant is endowed with high value bioactive compounds. Banana is world’s widest-known fruit and it’s harvesting, processing and transportation generates lots of waste. With high crop production projected in the future, there is a vital need to complement this production with proper utilization of the product and its waste, which is rich in nutrient resource, therefore, the volume of processed banana products has developed slowly. Fresh-fruit operations, though continuing year-round, are still affected by seasonality and by supply and demand.With the tremendous growth in food processing and neutraceutical industries as an aftermath of Covid-19 pandemic, banana can play a pivotal role in its further escalation. Being a climatric fruit, with diversified varieties and variety specific preference by consumers the acceptability of its processed products will be much easier, as consumer find potential advantage of products from tropical fruits over fruit flavoured or substituted products and equate such items with better nutritional outcome. However, any pertaining lag to accomplish its acquiescence can be compensated by developing commercial processes with techno-economic feasibility. Smallholder farmers need to improve their position in food value chains in order to improve their margins and as a strategy for coping with agricultural food price volatility through innovations within the chains. Processes endowing high value processed products (starch, antioxidants and pigments) have huge application in food, pharmaceutical and cosmetic industry. Through the combination of farmer’s cooperation, technological upgradation, reduction in postharvest loss, establishment of processing industries and favourable policies, the banana trade from India could make more impact and foot print in the world trade.