 Keywords: copper sulphate, earthen kuthia, bukhari, lime, neem leaves 2303 Storage of food grains in bins made of bamboo and cotton sticks Marginal farmers of Nanduabar, Dhule, Ahmednagar and Jalgaon districts of Maharashtra store food grains in bins for a long time in good condition without any incidence of storage pests. After sun drying of the grains, it is stored in bins made of bamboo and cotton sticks and covered with mud and cowdung slurry so as to make the bin airtight. In some areas neem leaves are also mixed with the grains while storing. Keywords: storage bin, bamboo and cotton sticks Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2460 Grain storage in khochar Farmers of Barmasa in Dumka district of Jharkhand store grains of maize, paddy, wheat etc. in a special structure called khochar. It is made of puwal, bamboo and soil. The structures are placed on the ground and filled with clean and dried grains, layered with dried neem leaves. It protects the grain against insect, pests and rodents. About 3-4 quintals grain can be stored for 9-12 months. Keywords: khochar, paddy, maize, wheat Shri Baroop Lal Singh Barmasa, Sahra, Dumka (Jharkhand) 2453 Grain storage in earthenware jar Food grain is stored in large or small quantity in earthenware jars. These jars are made of mud, usually derived from termitaria (mounds of termites or white ants). These containers provide safe, clean storage of the grains of any kind i.e. maize, wheat etc. These containers have the capacity of 10-20 kg. After filling the container upto full capacity, the top is covered with flat stone or any other lid which should be tight in all respects.This kind of storge is followed by all the people in hilly area of Himachal Pradesh. Keywords: earthenware jar, termitaria, termite (white ants) Mr Bovinder Chand Research Fellow Department of Biosciences Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2454 Storage of paddy grains in container made up of deodar Among other storage structures, bin made up of deodar (Cidar deodara) wood are very useful for storing paddy grains for a considerable period of time as it Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir  effectively prevents infestation of insect pest. This is owing to the wood oil, which acts as a strong repellent for the insect-pests. For the purpose of storing a quintal of grain, a bin of 4'x4'x4' dimension would be required. Deodar is a locally available resource, profusely growing wild tree. As per rough estimate, a bin may cost around Rs. 3000/-. The practice is locally popular among the farmers of Bhaderwah tehsil of Doda district (Jammu & Kashmir). Keywords: deodar wood, paddy grain storage, wood oil, repellent University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002.