, Pathogen, Wheat blast Indian Farming 72(1): 09–10; January 2022 O UTBREAK of new disease causing agents and their increased frequency is a major menace towards global food security. One example is blast; a fungal disease of rice, wheat and other grasses that can destroy food supply sufficient to sustain millions of people. It can cause up to 100% yield losses under congenial environmental conditions. Till 1930, there was no historical report on occurrence of the blast disease of wheat. During 1985, wheat blast disease was reported and confined to the tropical regions of South America. Inefficient quarantine facility of the exporting and importing country is the only responsible factor for distant appearance of this disease. Moreover, erratic changes of climatic conditions combined with the global warming may trigger spread of this disease to rice-wheat growing areas in near future. It has now become a major threat to the wheat growing area of Bangladesh. Eventual movement to the Asian continent particularly Bangladesh in 2016 is likely to affect economic yield of wheat. Climatic condition of Bangladesh is more or less similar to India and Pakistan. Bangladesh also shares a long border with India which puts the wheat growing areas of India and Pakistan at risk. After 2016 in Bangladesh, it was unofficially reported from India in 2017. Symptoms Initial symptom of spike infection is very much confusing with Historical occurrence of the wheat blast pathogen Indian Farming January 2022 10 symptoms of head blight disease incited by Fusarium. Unlike Fusarium head blight, instead of attacking each isolated spikelet, it infects the rachis. Initial pathogen invasion occurs to the rachis; either at the base or upper part, interrupting translocation of photosynthates above the point of infection and subsequent spikelet formation. Complete or partial bleaching of the spike above the point of infection with either no grain or shrivelled grain is common in affected plants. Commonly observed bleached or grey coloured heads with thin layer of fungal sporulation is indicative for successful infection. If infection starts at the mid region of spikelet, above portion of the infection remains bleached and no grains are formed while below portion remains healthy with normal grains. In case of severe infection, eye-shaped or spindle shaped necrotic lesions with grey centres on infected leaves may be observed. Pathogen biology and taxonomy Anamorphic stage of the fungus is infectious and the name Pyricularia was given by Saccardoas as it produces pyriform shaped conidia. The genus Pyricularia so far has been identified on rice signifying its species name as oryzae, given by Cavara (1892). In 1970 the sexual spore of the genus Pyricularia was observed in laboratory on the leaves of Digitaria and designated as Pyricularia grisea. Based on host specificity; sexual compatibility and genetic similarity, P. oryzae isolates have been classified into several subgroups.