31 Technology assessment: Technology assessment is conceptualized as finding out a more profitable and sustainable option than the existing one in a given environment. To find out such an option, one or two new technological options or practices are tested against the best existing option. 5.32 Technology backstopping: It refers to technology and technological input support by NARS to the KVKs, which can further extend it to the development departments and organizations working in agriculture and allied sectors. 5.33 Technology refinement: If assessed technologies are not performing satisfactorily or partially performing to solve the problem, then the technology refinement can be taken up with necessary modification to suit the local conditions of the farmers in respect of socio-economic and bio-physical conditions. 76 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK 5.34 Technology week: It is an extension programme, which aims to reorient KVK premises as Farmers Stop for appropriate and effective dissemination of latest technologies. 5.35 Training: It is the acquisition of knowledge, skills and competencies for bringing desirable change in the attitude and behaviour of the individuals to perform specific activity in a given environment. 5.36 Training Needs Assessment (TNA): It is a systematic, objective determination of training needs of individuals through three types of analysis namely organization/community, job and person analysis. 5.37 Training evaluation: It is a process by which the desired behavioural changes - knowledge, skills and attitudes due to training are measured against set of objectives/standards. This can be conducted by training institution, participants (trainees) and participating institution (sponsoring agency). 5.38 Vocational training: It refers to long-term vocation-based and skill oriented training for rural youth, farm women, school drop-outs etc. in agriculture and allied activities for income generation and self-employment. IMPLEMENTATION OF KVK SYSTEM PART - II  The authority of the implementation of the KVK scheme is vested with the ICAR, New Delhi. The ICAR is a Society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 and has full authority to perform all acts and issue such directions as may be considered necessary, incidental or conducive to the attainment of the objectives enunciated in the KVK scheme. The Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR is the Principal Executive Officer of the ICAR Society. He is supported by Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension) for planning, execution and monitoring of KVK Scheme. The organizational set up of the KVK system is depicted in Fig-4. 6. Administrative Guidelines Fig. 4. Organizational structure of KVK system 80 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK The administrative guidelines for effective management of KVKs are detailed here under: 6.