 Organic farming provides quality food and is beneficial to human health and environment. Keywords: Climate change, Cost-benefit analysis, Organic farming, Sustainable Agriculture Indian Farming 72(1): 31–38; January 2022 O RGANIC farming is an alternative agricultural system which originated early in the 20th century in reaction to rapidly changing farming practices. Commercial organic agriculture is now being practiced in more than 170 countries, and is gaining gradual momentum across the world. Highest number of organic producers are in Asia (36%) followed by Africa (29%) and Europe (17%). There is 43.1 Mha of organic agricultural land in India including conversion areas with 2 million producers. Organic farming management is an integrated approach, where all aspects of farming system are interlinked with each other and work for each other. A healthy biologically active soil is vital for crop nutrition; on-farm biodiversity controls pests, crop rotation and multiple cropping maintains the system’s health, and on-farm resource management with integration of cattle ensures productivity and sustainability. According to FAO “Organic agriculture is a unique production management system which promotes and enhances agro-ecosystem health, including biodiversity, biological cycles and soil biological activity, and this is accomplished by using on-farm agronomic, biological and mechanical methods in exclusion of all synthetic off-farm inputs”. Organic farming leads to production of high quality food in sufficient quantity in harmony with natural systems and cycles. This system makes use of organic wastes, and crops are raised in such a manner that it keeps the soil healthy and alive. Microbes are used as bio-fertilizers to increase production without polluting the environment. The key characteristics include protecting the long-term fertility of soil by maintaining organic matter levels, fostering soil biological activity, careful mechanical intervention, nitrogen self-sufficiency through the use of legumes and biological nitrogen fixation, effective recycling of organic materials including crop residues and livestock wastes and weed, and diseases and pest control relying primarily on crop rotations, natural predators, diversity, organic manuring, and resistant varieties. A great emphasis is placed to maintain the soil fertility by returning all the wastes to it chiefly through compost to minimize the gap between NPK addition and removal from the soil. The key factors affecting consumer demand for organic food is health consciousness and willingness of the public to pay for the high-priced produce. Government policies aim to stimulate the organic sector through subsidies, consumer education, and support in the form of research, education, and marketing.