 3. The provision is for research, development and refinement of farm equipment, process and value addition protocols. 4. The provision is for research to address low farm productivity and profitability, land degradation, low water productivity, soil health deterioration and low nutrient use efficiency, dete- rioration in ecosystem services, abiotic stresses, etc. It is necessary to encounter deteriorating natural resource base for long term sustainability. 5. The provision is to conduct strategic research and technology demonstration to enhance resilience of Indian agriculture to climate change and climate vulnerability. The research on adaptation and mitigation covers crops, livestock, fisheries and natural resource management. This scheme will be merged with Natural Resource Management Institutes including Agro Forestry Research scheme with effect from financial year 2023-24. 6. Research provision is to develop trait- specific high yielding field crop varieties/hybrids having tolerance to pest and diseases, besides various abiotic stresses. The quality attributes are also given due importance with no yield penalty. The All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRPs)/Network Research Projects with active collaboration with State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) are engaged in the development of improved crop varieties/ hybrids, cost-effective production and environment-friendly protection technologies in different agro- climatic regions. 7. The provision is to address thrust areas of enrichment of horticultural genetic resources, development of new cultivation with resistance mechanism to biotic and abiotic stresses, appropriate production technology and health management system of horticultural and vegetable crops. 8. Supports basic and strategic research in agriculture to address the prioritized research problems. This scheme will be merged under non scheme budget with effect from 2023-24. 9. The provision is to develop new technologies to support production enhancement, profitability, competitiveness and sustainability of livestock and poultry sector for food and nutritional security. It will facilitate need based priority research in livestock and poultry sector in on-going and new emerging areas to support productivity increase, thereby reducing the gap between potential and actual yield. 10. The provision is to implement research and academic programmes in fisheries and aquaculture. It also provides technical, training, analytical, advisory support and consultancy (Concluded) ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 213 APPENDICES services in the field of resources assessment and management, standardization of aquaculture hatchery and grow-out culture technologies, responsible fishing system and species diversification and utilization of inland saline soils for aquaculture, fish health monitoring, etc. 11.