 Yellowing of one outer whorl of leaf associated with the presence of the pest or its feeding punctures. Premature withering of more than one outer whorl of leaves associated with feeding punctures or presence of pests. Withering of all outer whorls of leaves followed by yellowing of one inner whorl of leaf associated with feeding punctures or presence of pest. Sustainable management: y Cut and burn the firstly infested outer whorl of leaves. y Collect and destroy the damaged leaves, flowers and fruits along with life stages. y Spray 2% neem oil garlic emulsion. y Use yellow sticky trap @ 15/ha. y Predatory mirid bug Stethoconus praefectus (Distant) predate on this pest and two egg parasitoid Erythmelus panis and Anagrus spp. parasitize the eggs. Banana leaf eating caterpillars Sustainable management: y Hand-pick and destroy the caterpillar. y Collect and destroy the damaged plant parts. y Summer ploughing to expose to the pupae. y Use light trap @ 1/ha. y Remove half opened spindle leaves which are suspected to harbour the caterpillars during day time. y Remove and destroy the rolled leaves with larvae and pupae of leaf rollers. y Use burning torch to kill the congregating larvae. y Grow repellant plants: Ocimum/basil. y In severe infestation: spot application of Bt. y Spray hot chilli cow urine mixture diluted in water directing the spray inside the partially opened spindle leaf, leaf axil and both the surfaces of leaves and at the base of the plant. (The mixture can be prepared by mixing one litre of cow urine in 10 litre of water and then adding 30 g well crushed green hot chilli. Filter and spray). y Field release of entomopathogenic fungus, Nomuraea rileyi. y Field release of egg parasitoids such as Telenomus spodopterae, T. remus. y Encourage the activity of larval parasitoids Ichneumon promissorius, Carcelia spp., Campoletis chlorideae. y Pupal parasitoids such as Ichneumon sp etc., predators such as Chrysoperla zastrowi sillemi, Coccinellids, King crow, Braconid wasp, dragonfly, spider, robber fly, reduviid bug, praying mantis, red ants. y Conserve nematode such as Ovomermis albicans. For further interaction, please write to: Dr A Banerjee (Assistant Professor), Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidyalaya, Mohanpur 741 252, Nadia, West Bengal. *Corresponding author email: amitavakvk@gmail.com May–June 2023 53 L ITCHI (Litchi chinensis Sonn) is an evergreen fruit crop and considered as queen of the subtropical fruits due to its attractive deep pink/red colours and flavoured juicy aril. Among biotic constraints, insect-pests are the major one as they attack litchi trees and fruits at different stages of growth. Insect species of major economic importance Litchi production through smart pest management Litchi (Litchi chinensis Sonn.) is an important subtropical evergreen fruit which is affected by several biotic stresses particularly insect-pests causing reduction in quality production and productivity.