 Thus, for any scientific research experiment, use of appropriate scientific equipment with high values of static and dynamic characteristics is of paramount importance. The aim of measurement is to give reliable knowledge on objects or concepts. Measurements in the field of science leads to understand and improve upon the knowledge and to test verify the theories. On the other hand, the measurement in areas other than science helps as an information about a subject that is ready for development, manufacturing and trade. Historically, simple instruments have been used for measurements. For example, thermometer has been used for temperature measurement, simple linear scales have been used for length measurements, plating techniques have been used for measuring biological loads in a media, wet chemistry methods have been used for quantifying chemical compositions and similar other simple techniques have been used. Such simple devises are cheaper to buy and less expensive to maintain, but slow, having poor precision & accuracy of measurements, limited frequency of measurement and generally limited to the human speeds and automation is not possible. Due to the advancement of measurement sciences, hi-tech analytical equipment/instruments and instrumentation systems have become integral part of latest research techniques worldwide. Such analytical measurement systems are exorbitantly expensive; their repair and maintenance costs are highly prohibitive; they require elaborate sample pteparation methods; expensive standards for calibration and comparison and require highly trained manpower for operation and maintenance. It is beginning to be an expensive and money intensive affair for majority of Research and Development Institutions and Universities, be them in the public domain or privately owned. It is inevitable, however, to create state-of-the-art scientific equipment facility, maintain them in good working order and make available suitable manpower for operation and ‘y SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT POLICY HDT ICAR maintenance and the standards for measurement and comparison for a high quality and competitive research in the current world scenario. Accurate and precise measurement is basic requirement for trueness and veracity of a scientific finding. The progress of science and understanding of complex scientific phenomena depend greatly on easy access to technically advanced quality research instruments or scientific equipment to all the researchers in the system. Every researcher must be given fair, easy access & opportunity to use advanced laboratory measurement facilities as per the needs. The costs of research, particularly in agricultural and biological research areas, have shot up phenomenally in the recent times due to the advancement and the requirement of hi-tech scientific equipment and instrument for accurate measurement purposes.