 He is Fellow of the Royal College of Pathologists, London. 185 Health and Good Living coronaviruses. Human coronavirus (HCoV) infection is zoonotic and has originated from bats. First pandemic of 21st century; Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) killed one in ten of the infected persons. The pandemic was seeded from a single person on a single day on a single floor of Hong Kong hotel and the virus had spread to five countries within 24 hours. The Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) is of the same family as the SARS, but has some novel biological features. This virus was transmitted from camel to humans. Almost 1,300 people were infected with MERS in Saudi Arabia and other countries and 458 people had died. Natural reservoirs and intermediate hosts are facilitators in inter-species transmission of CoVs. It all had started from one person infected by one wild animal and the global health system is still struggling to cope with COVID-19. Immune response and disease spectrum after viral entry, initial inflammatory response attracts T cells to the site of infection, where the infected cells are eliminated before the spread of the virus. The cardiovascular system is often involved early in the COVID-19 disease consistent with the clinical context of coagulopathy. In COVID-19 patients cytokinens normally mediate and regulate immunity but may cause extensive tissue damage resulting in capillary leak, thrombus formation and organ dysfunction. Complications of COVID-19 include pneumonia, respiratory failure, cardiopathy, acute kidney injury and viral and fungal infections. The virus can spread from an infected person’s mouth or nose in small liquid particles while coughing, sneezing, speaking, singing or breathing. The best way to prevent and slow down transmission is to be well aware of the disease and how the virus spreads. Nasal droplets larger than 10 micro meter can be blocked by surgical mask and smaller once can be efficiently blocked by N 95 masks. Current COVID 19 vaccine development status shows that number of vaccines in clinical development stage are 108, vaccines in pre-clinical development stage are 184 and approved vaccines are 20. Of these 20 approved vaccines 9 are based on inactivated virus, 2 on mRNA, 5 vectored and 4 recombinant proteins. Moderna and Pfizer/ BioNTech are nucleotide-based vaccine candidate and Covaxin is inactivated or wholy killed virus candidate. Covaxin is India’s first indigenous COVID-19 vaccine developed by the Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-National Institute of Virology (NIV). The vaccine had received DCGI approval for Human Clinical Trials. According to Bharat Biotech, Covaxin would be at least 60 per cent effective based on the earlier trial results. ICAR institutes (IVRI, NRCE, NIHSAD, ICFMD) are involved in COVID-19 testing. A total of 32 virus identified have been isolated from the first and second waves.