 In sloppy areas of Northern foot hills (AEU 13), ridge planting will be better. Homestead gardens: Drought management in homesteads should be undertaken through husk burial in trenches, mulch with dried coconut leaves, sow cowpea or green manure crops on receipt of pre monsoon showers in coconut basins. Manage the micro climate with intercrops like tubers, vegetables, perennial vegetables, medicinal plants, spices and banana to make each homestead as nutritional garden. Coconut: Crown cleaning and preventing Rhinoceros beetle attack by applying 1: 40 mixture of chloranthraniliprole granule (Fertera 0.4 % WG) and sand @ 250 g / palm. Or 250g neem cake or marotti (Hydnocarpus wightina) cake mixed with equal volume of sand in the innermost 2-3 leaf axils during April-May before the onset of south- west monsoon. Ginger, turmeric, vegetables can be cultivated in coconut gardens. Provide shade to the young palms. Planting of new coconut seedlings can be taken up, apply 1 kg lime and one week later, apply 25 kg organic manure. 234 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Banana: Take care of newly planted banana with lime, organic manure and fetilizers. Irrigate twice a week, provide shade, and mulch using dried leaves. Be vigilant about rhizome weevil. Apply neem-garlic emulsion to control the vectors spreading Bunchy top virus. Against mites and thrips spray mineral oil @ 25ml/litre on the lower leaf surface. Turmeric and ginger: Plant turmeric and ginger healthy rhizomes (20- 25 g with at least 2 buds) in small pits, mulch the crop using glyricidia after planting. Apply lime, manure and fertilizers as per soil test. Black Pepper: Mulch using dried leaves, and provide shade using coconut leaves to pepper vines planted last year. Irrigate vines twice a week. Cardamom: Take necessary control measures against thrips, white flies etc. Continue irrigation, apply mulch and clean the drainage channels. Microgreens: During Covid lockdown period every homestead can go for microgreen production by using available pulses grains. Microgreens are ready to harvest 7 to 14 days after seedling emergence with edible stem, leaves and cotyledon. Fisheries: The pre monsoon showers bring down water pH in brackish water farms. Check pH of water on receiving rains, if required, add liming materials to improve pH. Ongoing Pearl spot seed producers are advised to collect fry stage fishes from ponds and stock in HDPE happa nets (16 mm) till marketing. Cage fish culture farmers may reduce standing stock by selling harvestable fish directly to consumers by keeping the Corona quarantine protocol. Livestock: Management of heat conditions and feed are recommended for all animals. Clean animal sheds and premises with disinfectants regularly. Proper cleaning of watering and feeding equipment is essential. In poultry farms, use lime in deep litter system at weekly intervals. Follow proper hand washing before and after milking and handling of animals.