 Traditionally, fish has been consumed fresh by adopting simple techniques like chilling using ice by which fish could be maintained fresh for a few days depending upon the species. Several standard protocols have been developed by ICAR-CIFT for the low-temperature preservation of seafoods. One recent advancement in this regard is the use of modified icing systems using plant-based extractives for improved quality and stability. Refrigerated Fish Vending Kiosk CIFTEQTM Chill Fish is a low-cost energy efficient, hygienic mobile fish vending kiosk for small- Achievements in Fisheries and Aquaculture in Independent India 201 scale fisher/retailers for the sale of fresh fish, which extends its shelf life for up to 5 days. Innovative technologies such as thermal processing, high-pressure processing (HPP), pulse light technology, e-beam radiation, radio frequency heating, etc. also present an additional layer of quality and safety for numerous seafood products. Thermal processing is a major area where ICAR-CIFT has made pioneer contributions in facilitating the standardization of a variety of ready-to-eat products. This high-impact technology employing retort processing has been adopted by over a dozen seafood companies in the country. HPP is an emerging technology for food preservation and has wide application potential in the seafood industry. Thorough studies have been undertaken by ICAR-CIFT for developing standardized protocols using HPP for enhanced quality and stability of various seafoods. Improvements in packaging technology like vacuum packaging, modified atmosphere packaging, etc. also facilitate extended storage life of seafoods in addition to the adopted processing techniques (Biji et al. 2015). Studies carried out on innovative approaches of packaging like vacuum and MAP have given promising results for the extended stability of various seafoods. Another remarkable achievement in this field is the application of smart packaging for the development of a freshness indicator which is a simple dye-based paper disc to indicate the freshness of packed seafoods. 2.4.2. Nutraceuticals The ICAR-CMFRI during the last decade has developed several nutraceutical products from mussels, seaweeds and other marine species, which contain small molecular weight bioactive compounds. These products have been used to treat a variety of life-threatening disorders, viz., combating arthritis (Cadalmin® GAe, Cadalmin® GMe), type-2 diabetes (Cadalmin® Ade), dyslipidemia (Cadalmin® Ace), hypothyroidism (Cadalmin® Ate), osteoporosis (Cadalmin® Aoe), low immunity (Cadalmin® Ibe), and hypertension (Cadalmin® Ahe). Cadalmin® MBc, a seaweed-based probiotic nutraceutical, and Cadalmin® Abe, an antibacterial ointment, are the most recent results in this area.