 Under the ABI programme, Business Planning and Development Bidyut C Deka1 and K Karthikeyen2 Article In 2016, ICAR introduced student READY (Rural Entrepreneurship Awareness Development Yojana) programme in all the SAUs, CAUs and other accredited Universities with an objective to enhance rural awareness, research expertise, industry experience and entrepreneurship skills of final year Under-graduate students across all degree programmes (4-year) of agricultural sciences. 46 (BPD) Units were set up in ICAR Institutions. These BPDs facilitated new startups and agri enterprises with innovative technologies by providing need-based physical, technical and business support, networking facilities, testing and validation services for successful scale up. These ABIs/ BPDs strived to assist new entrepreneurs in commercial activities conducted both on-farm, as well as off-farm such as crop cultivation, livestock improvement, agro-processing, food manufacturing and other critical farm support services etc. ABIs since its inception have met with considerable success in the recent past. They have become synonymous as an alternative and effective extension mechanism for the growth of the agribusiness sector in the country. In 2016, ICAR also introduced student READY (Rural Entrepreneurship Awareness Development Yojana) programme in all the SAUs, CAUs and other accredited Universities with an objective to enhance rural awareness, research expertise, industry experience and entrepreneurship skills of final year Under- graduate students across all degree p r o g r a m m e s (4-year) of a g r i c u l t u r a l sciences. Likewise, ABIs have been set up under various flagship programmes for startups by the Department of Agriculture Cooperation & Farmers Welfare, Government of India. These initiatives include the RKVY- RAFTAAR (Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana – Remunerative Approaches for Agriculture and Allied Sector Rejuvenation) Programme. Under this particular programme, SAUs are offered funding to the tune of approx. ` 6 crore each, for setting up physical incubation centre infrastructure for entrepreneurs, facilities for testing and validation of technologies, pre-seed and seed funding for startups, mentoring and networking activities and events, etc. Impact of incubation centres set up by agricultural universities and ICAR institutes Across the country, currently there are 29 Incubation Centres under the RKVY-RAFTAAR Programme, mostly set up in the Agriculture Universities and a few specialised ICAR institutions. These centres have come up as late as in the year 2018-19 across the country and each of these Centres at the SAUs have been imparting training, mentoring and coaching sessions to budding entrepreneurs across the country. Most of the SAUs have been able to promote and commercialise few technologies which have been developed by them.