 Diatoms invariably constituted the bulk of the population (> 66%) of the total periphytic community attached in the natural substrates. Macrobenthos; Pila virens, Bellamya bengalensis, Pila globossa, Meiniplotica scabra, Tarebia granifera, Thiara lineata were very common irrespective of seasons in the canals. Small indigenous fishes (SIFs) are the major catch in these canals contributing >75% (showed percentage on the basis of studied canals) of the total catch. Amblypharyngodon mola, Puntius community indicates the productivity of water body. Phytoplankton population, the biological wealth of an aquatic ecosystem, responsible for wide assemblage of biotic community and regulate the food web. Zooplankton, being the primary consumer in food chain, plays an important role in transfer of energy to the higher trophic level. Zooplankton is also fed upon by many juvenile and adult zooplanktivorous fish species and hence it can be termed a key factor in the control of fish stock sizes. The occurrence of these organisms largely depends on the seasonal variations of physico-chemical parameters, physiographic factors and flow characteristics of the water body. Phytoplankton and zooplankton populations in the selected canals exhibited significant variations in abundance in seasons. Cyanophyceae excelled as a major microfloral component (>35%) followed by Bacillariophyceae (>28%) and Chlorophyceae (>17%). Other algal groups (Coscinodiscophyceae, Euglenophyceaea, Trebouxiophyceae, Mediophyceae, Xanthophyceae, Conjugatophyceae, Synurophyceae) contributed partially and fluctuated much in seasons. Dinophyceae contributed least (<1%) contribution to the algal community. Diatoms were the most diverse group across the seasons in these canals. Compositions of zooplankton represented; Crustacean nauplius> Rotifera> Copepoda> Copepod depth during peak monsoon season (Fig. 2). Salinity is one of the important criteria in these canals where it fluctuates from 0.02 ‰ (monsoon season) to 18.76 ‰ (pre- monsoon season). The salinity levels are highest during pre-monsoon due to high rate of evaporation and lowest during monsoon season owing to high precipitation. Concurrently, low level of tidal influx is also a cause of increased salinity in some of the canals in Sundarbans. It is imperative to mention that the freshwater dominated canals are reaching maximum salinity up to 6.0% during pre-monsoon season (e.g. Bherua canal, Shivpur) which may be favorable for carp culture practice. Water temperature of the investigated canals ranged from 25.8-34.2°C round the year. Water pH found to be neutral to alkaline (7.60-8.35) with optimum range of dissolved oxygen (5.7- 6.23 mg/l) which is the most critical limiting factor for normal growth and survivability of fishes. Total alkalinity (107-188 mg/l) indicated productive nature of the canals. Water transparency (Secchi disc) in the canals recorded lowest during monsoon (28.8 cm) and highest during pre-monsoon season (45.