 More than one application should be made, because the insecticide will kill the adults and a few days later the eggs will hatch and the cycle will restart, unless treatment is repeated again to kill them too. There are lots of insecticides available on market, some of them are- Chlorpyrifos-methyl, Imidacloprid, Acetamiprid, Dinotefuran, Thiamethoxam, Malathion, Pirimicarb, Carbosulfan, Lambda-cyhalothrin, Es- fenvalerate, Pymetrozine and Diafenthiuron. Precaution yy Plants should be immersed in a solution only on sunny days; if the weather is cool, cloudy or rainy, the day must be avoided. yy It should be done early in the day. This will allow any water that got in between leaves or new growth to evaporate before nightfall. yy The solution should be prepared with room temperature water or lukewarm water. Diseases of orchids Viruses yy Occasionally the growers may come across a plant that has a virus. This may manifest itself by concentric or elongated black or brown or discoloured circles on the leaves or black streaks on flowers and leaves. yy These will be repeated on all leaves / flowers. New leaves / flowers will appear free of it at first, but as they age the virus will manifest itself. yy Unfortunately nothing can be done to manage viral diseases. The plant must be discarded. The plant or infected plant part should be removed and burned or destroyed. Bacterial and fungal diseases yy These will appear if water stays in between leaves or if the potting material stays soggy, especially when the night temperatures are cooler (winter, spring). yy Grower can treat these with fungicides (Ridox, Phentom, Compass, etc.), but the best way is to avoid these problems by practicing proper cultural practices. yy Copper oxychloride (blitox) @ 3 g/l solution can be used against fungus as well as bacteria. Carbendazim @ 1 g/l solution can be used against fungus. Cultural problems which are common to most of the orchids and their probable remedies Leaves 1. Leaves are dark green, look very healthy, but plant does not bloom: Probably due to insufficient light, shade should be decreased and the light level must be increased. 2. Leaves are not as lustrous, eventually they shrivel: Plant is not absorbing enough water. The root system must be checked. If roots are abundant, healthy, firm and white, then the plant is being under watered. If the root system is not healthy, the plant should be re- potted as soon as possible. 3. Yellowing of leaves (chlorosis), it may be due to excessive light and/or deficiency of nitrogen and /or sulphur, shade must be provided, nutrient should be applied. 4. Clear or watery spots on leaves, usually result from fungal/bacterial infection. The plant should be re- potted, the plant may be treated with fungicide (Ridox, Phentom, Compass, etc.), and it should be kept relatively dry for a few weeks. 5. Discoloured area on top of curled leaves on leaf area exposed to light, it appears most probably due to sunburn or excessive light.