 • Developed elevated temperature and on-farm storage technologies for storing table and processing potatoes. • Developed and commercialized several value added products from potatoes viz. Cookies, Daliya, Semolina etc. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Aeroponics for quality seed production. • Mechanization solutions for potato crop management. • Potato Breeder’s seed. • Potato production, protection and post-harvest management practices. • Value added products. • Vegfast technology for home scale vegetable production. Potato var. Kufri Kiran Aeroponic for potato seed production Apple var. Golden Snow 77 Horticultural Science 77 ICAR-Directorate of Cashew Research 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-DCR, Mottethadka, Darbe (P.O, Puttur, Karnataka 574202 ii. Name of the Director: Dr TN Raviprasad (Act.) iii. Email Address: director.dcr@icar.gov.in, Phone No: 08251-231530 2. Mandate and activities • To undertake strategic, basic and applied research for enhancing productivity, quality, processing efficiency and value addition of cashew. • To serve as National Repository of genetic resources and scientific information on cashew. • To coordinate All India Coordinated Research Project on Cashew for addressing location and region specific problems. • To promote capacity building through transfer of technology and consultancy services to stakeholders. 3. Salient achievements • Softwood grafting and nursery management techniques were standardised for commercial multiplication of cashew. • Collected and conserved 552 germplasm accession in the National Cashew Field Gene bank • Released six varieties of cashew, namely, NRCC Selection-1, NRCC Selection-2, Bhaskara, Nethra Ganga, Nethra Vaman and Nethra Jumbo-1. • Developed and popularised high density and ultra density planting techniques. • Standardised nutrient management, soil and water conservation and irrigation management. • Developed packages for intercropping in cashew in earlier stages of plantation. • Standardised management strategies for major pests of cashew such as tea mosquito bug and cashew stem and root borers. • Developed six post harvest machineries and standardised value added products from cashew kernels and cashew apples. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Impart training and consultancy on various aspects of cashew cultivation, cashew processing and post-harvest handling. • Commercialised various varieties, technologies, machineries, products and protocols. 78 ICAR Institutes Profile 78 • Organises field days, exhibitions, farmer’s fair, guided tours, front line demonstrations etc for the benefit of different stakeholders in cashew. • Leverage the power of social media and ICTs for effective transfer of technologies in cashew. Cashew var. H-130 Cashew apple 79 Horticultural Science 79 ICAR-Directorate of Floricultural Research 1. Contact details i.