 During Prasannayya (1999) 246 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference he entire process, the cows’ eyes will be covered and it is as if the cow was giving birth to the calf again (Though in reality it is the leaves and not the calf). Meanwhile the prepared buttermilk is poured over the calf and it is made to stand next to the mother. After the process of artificial calving, the cloth covering the eyes of cow is removed and calf is pushed near its mother. Because of salty and sour buttermilk, the cow starts licking the body of calf and process of feeding begins automatically. However, it is important that only experts are allowed to perform this pseudo delivery process (Bangalore, Karnataka). 386 Datepalm as energetic food for bullocks To increase performance of bullocks that are working intensive, farmers feed them a small amount of dried datepalm (Vejpura, Savli). Adabhai (1993) 387 Cotton stalk as cattle feed Rainfed cotton is grown in some parts of Saurashtra. Normally cotton stalks are used as fuel. But it is also used as cattle feed. An inexpensive and high quality feed can be prepared by mixing molasses and salt with pieces of cotton stalk. It has good scope of being utilized as stress feed during drought years in Saurashtra region (Amreli, Gujarat). Masani (1996) 388 Feeding of cotton bolls to increase fat content of milk Feeding fresh primordial and immature cotton bolls to dairy cattle reportedly increases butterfat content (Dudhrej, Vadhvan). Gandabhai (1993) 389 Treatment of constipation in animals 10 g of hing (Asafoetida) is warmed in 250 g ghee and given to the affected animals till cure (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 390 Treatment for stomach pain in cattle Bark of pungam (Pongamia pinnata) is dried and a decoction is made . About 350 ml of this decoction is given to the ailling animal per day for 2 days (Dharampuri, Tamil Nadu). Pandurangan (2000) 391 Treatment of Afara(indigestion) 50 g of leaves and 50 g of fruits of Sonafool are taken and boiled. Then it is mixed into 500 ml of water. This is filtered by cloth and decoction is given twice a day for a week (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 247 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 392 Treatment for stomach problems Amaltas seeds are traditionally used as purgative in animals. As it is laxative in nature, it induces purgation in animals by drawing out fluid from intestines. In cases of severe constipation, a mixture of half kg of amaltas (Casia fistula) seeds, 250 g ajwain, 250 g harad, 250 g jaggery and half kg wheat bran are given to the animals. Anonymous (2000-2001d) 393 Treatment against indigestion of calves About half litre castoroil is fed to calves suffering from indigestion so that it can pass motion to clear their stomach.