 Team teaching and collaborative teaching has been a distinction of Pantnagar classes as yet another normal for decades. The thrust of practical focus to classroom teaching has been an essence with significant tilt of each course towards practical classes, field based labs, tutorials, practical crop production, experiential learning, rural agricultural work experience, work programme, earn while you learn, skill-oriented projects and assignments, plant clinic, industry attachment, village attachment and GB Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar emerged in World QS ranking in year 2022 OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 75 many more to provide the students immense opportunity to emerge as a scholar with deep-woven skill sets, humbleness, work culture, discipline and pride of manual labour. This emerged as the core value at Pantnagar which people called as Pantnagar Culture. The roots were very strong G.B. Pant University of Agriculture and Technology came into existence on 17 November 1960, as the first State Agricultural University of India in tarai-belt of the Nainital district (presently Udham Singh Nagar district of Uttarakhand state). Geographically, tarai marks the junction of the Shivalik range at the foothills of the Himalayas with a vast exposure of the fertile Gangetic plain. With the dawn of Independence on 15 August 1947, the first priority set by the great national leaders was to attain self-sufficiency on the agricultural front which culminated in the appointment of University Education Commission in 1948 under the Chairmanship of late Dr S Radhakrishnan. The Commission showed serious concern about large imports of food grain to the tune of 4.5 million tonnes worth ` 200 crores, and recommended that agricultural education be recognized as a major national issue. To specify the organisation and functions of a rural university, a joint team under the Chairmanship of Shri KR Damle was formed, in accordance with the resolution of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, Govt. of India. In the light of the recommendations of this joint team, Pantnagar University came into existence on the pattern of American Land Grant Institutions in 1960. The University was dedicated to the nation by Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru, the first Prime Minister of independent India. T h e University has 8 constituent colleges, viz. A g r i c u l t u r e , Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Technology, Home Sciences, Basic Sciences and Humanities, Fisheries, Agri-Business Management and Post-Graduate Studies. The University is currently running undergraduate degree in 14 disciplines, masters degree in 71 disciplines and Ph.D. degree in 55 disciplines. A total of more than 50,000 students have graduated so far. The graduates trained in various disciplines have proven their worth and credentials across the world by leading the industry and academia from key positions.