 Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 90 Coccinia indica Ivy gourd H- Kunduri B-Telakucha Mar-Bimbi G-Ghobe K-Tonbekai T-Kovaikai Tel-Dondakaya The root stem and leaves are used for the treatment of skin diseases, bronchial catarrh, bronchitis and diabetes. A climbing or prostrate perennial herb, growing wild throughout India with long tuberous root. 91 Cocculus hirsutus - H-Jamfikibel The juice of leaves contains mucilage, when mixed with water it forms the jelly which is taken as cooling medicine for gonorrhoea and used externally for eczema, prurigo and impetigo. The root is bitter, alterative, laxative and demulcent, and is used with other ingradients for billious dyspepsia, rheumatism and stomachache of children. A scandant shrub occuring through out India. 92 Coffea arabica Arabian coffee H- Mamira G-Haladiovachnag B-Tita It produces the finest quality of coffee. The ‘chiks’ variety of arabica yields large round beans, reputed for liquoring quality. An evergreen shrub or small tree attaining a height of 15–30 feet. The flowers are white and fragrant.It is a native of Abyssinia and introduced into India through Arabia. It is cultivated in south India, Java, West Indies, East Africa and other South American states. 93 Commelina benghalensis - H- Kanchara M-Kena T-Kanavazhar Its rhizome is starchy and mucilaginous is cooked as food. The leaves are used as a potherb in the times of scarcity. The plant is bitter and said to be beneficial in leprosy. It is a succulent herb, common in moist region through out India. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 332 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 94 Commiphora weightii or Commiphora mukul Indian bellium tree H-Guggul It is a source of indian bdellium, a gum resin obtained by the incission of the bark. The resin is largely used as incence as fixative in perfumery, in medicine. Guggul has wide range of usefulness in indegeneous medicine.It is astringent and antiseptic. When taken internally it act as bitter, stomachic and carminative and improving the digestion. Like all oleoresins it causes an increase of leucosides in the blood and stimulant fagocides. It acts as a diaphoretic expectorant and diuretic. The resin is used in the form of lotion for indolent ulcers. A small tree or shrub with spinescent branches occuring in the arid rocky tracts of Rajputana, Khandesh, Berar, Sindh and Baluchistan. It is sometimes planted in large. 95 Coptis teeta Gold thread H-Mamira The rhizome is an all round tonic and stomachic. It has been found efficacious in debility, atonic dyspepsia and in mild form of intermittant fevers. It is also used as a salve for the eyes. This species occurs in Mishmi hills at the northern frontier of Assam and is reported to be cultivated in China.