12 q/ha) with C : B ratio 1 : 4 as compared to control i.e. disease incidence 49.78%, yield 90.50q/ha and C : B ratio 1 : 2.8. TUBER CROPS POTATO Twelve advanced stage hybrids were included in multilocational trials. Out of large number of TPS populations tested for raising commercial crop, population 92-PT- 27 was better than the recommended population TPS-C-3. Population 92-PT-27 has advantage for production of hybrid TPS as its parents flower under short day conditions. DNA (RAPD) fingerprints of 23 advanced hybrids and TPS parent EX/A-680- 16 have been prepared using 10 decamer primers. To differentiate late blight resistant and susceptible clones by RAPD markers, 24 Indian potato varieties were characterized. Dendogram constructed on the basis of band sharing could separate the 24 clones into late blight resistance and susceptible groups. Five transgenic lines were selected for a large-scale evaluation under glasshouse and field conditions, after testing them for PTM resistance in preferential and forced feeding experiments. Thirty-four transgenic lines were also produced by introducing AmA1 gene in 5 Indian potato varieties to increase protein content. Treating tubers with boric acid whether accompanied with the soil application of gypsum or not effectively controlled black scurf disease, pre-cold storage treatment being superior. Soil solarization was effective for the control of russet scab, black scruf and tuber cracking coupled with increased tuber yield. Residual beneficial effect of soil solarization up to 18 months was observed. Solarization during May- June was more effective than that during August-October; solarization for 2 weeks during May-June was sufficient to control diseases, while for 6 weeks was required to obtain maximum yield increase. Incorporation of Parthenium sp., Thevetia peruviana, Chenopodium album and Azadirachta indica in soil after solarization proved more effective in controlling black scurf, lenticel proliferation and russeting. Soil pulverization during hot weather (May-June), made Fusarium and Rhizoctonia non-detectable up to 4′′ of soil depth. The bio-agents namely, Bacillus cereus, B. subtilis, avirulent Ralstonia solanacearum, when applied as seed treatment controlled bacterial wilt effectively at Hasan and Bhubaneswar with increased tuber yield. IDM or combination of two or more treatments like tuber treatment with boric acid or bio-agent, planting of late blight resistant variety, roguing, fungicide application, dehaulming and crop rotation, proved very effective in controlling regional diseases and increasing tuber yield. The tractor-drawn 2-row mounted type potato digger windrower was modified and provided with attachment to collect the dug tubers in small heaps at 1.5 m interval of 1.5 meters with tuber bruising of 3.02%. The 2-row trailed type potato digger windrower was improved by providing rubber spade to avoid bruising during digging operation.