 There are two types of sensor-based automated systems: (1) systems that assess soil moisture content based on weather and other parameters, and (2) systems that measure soil moisture content directly using sensors. The sensors (tensiometer, capacitance, and 10 HS coded) are used to monitor and sense the soil moisture in real-time, which is useful for irrigation system planning. The data from the moisture sensor is sent to the microcontroller, which converts it from analog to digital. A radio-frequency (RF) module sends the data from the microcontroller. These data can be sent to the base station via a Bluetooth or Wi-Fi- based wireless transmitter. The soil moisture and flow levels are displayed on the microcontroller LCD. This enables the variable-rate irrigation controller to be evaluated from afar and monitored in real time. When soil moisture content falls below a predefined critical point, an irrigation controller is used to activate a solenoid valve that distributes water to crops. When the soil moisture content is low, the electricity turns on the pump, and water from the tank begins to flow through the pipe. When the soil moisture reaches a pre-defined, soil- specific saturation level, the power goes off, and the water stops. Internet of Things (IoT) for automated irrigation systems Based on the moisture level of the soil, an IoT based automatic irrigation system turns on and off the pump. Schematic diagram representing the irrigation scheduling criteria Automated wireless controller drip irrigation Indian Farming 31 September 2023 A soil moisture sensor determines the precise moisture content of the soil, and this information is used to control the pumping motor through an operational amplifier. Through IoT, farmers may view the soil moisture status via a mobile application or on a web page using a modem. A soil moisture sensor estimated soil water content, a pump delivered the appropriate amount of irrigation water to the crop, and a Wi-Fi module provided Internet access to sensed data. The sensor values were saved on a web server that functioned as the main base station and was relayed to the Internet in real-time. A user may accurately monitor the soil moisture content in the field based on the analysis of these signals. As the water pump is switched on or off based on the moisture level of the soil, the system tells the farmer in real time if the supply of irrigation water is insufficient or excessive. Case study At the Borlaug Institute for South Asia (BISA), International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT), Ludhiana, Punjab one of the first studies on an automated micro-irrigation system in a Conservation Agriculture (CA)- based rice-wheat rotation were conducted. The automated sensor can be used in conventional-till (CT) and zero-till (ZT) flood-irrigated systems with rice-wheat rotation for both surface drip (SD) and subsurface drip (SSD) irrigation systems.