 Š Š Sowing of Bajra is from the middle of July to the middle of August. Sow 50 cm at a distance of 4 cm deep in the back of theplough. Š Š Use 4 kg seed/ha for all varieties/hybrids. Š Š If the seed is not treated, one kg of seed should be treated with 2.50 grams of theram before planting. Seeds can be extracted by dipping in a 20% saltsolution. Š Š Weeding is more important in the cultivation of millet. First, weeding should be done after 15 days after germination and second weeding should be done after 35-40 days to destroy the weeds inmillet. Š Š Use fertilizers based on soil testing. If test results are not available, for hybrids use 80-100 kg of nitrogen, 40 kg of phosphorus, and 40 kg of potash and 40-45 kg of nitrogen for native species, 40 kg of potash per ha. The entire quantity of phosphorus potashandhalf of theamountofnitrogenshouldbegivenasthefirstbasaldressingfromsowing and half of the remaining nitrogen as topdressing when the plant is 25-30 days old. 4. Arhar (Pigeon pea) Š Š Grow improved long duration varieties Bahar, Amar, Narendra-1, Aazad, Pusa-9, PDA- 11, MA-6, MAL 13, Narendra Arhar-2 and short-duration varieties like Paras, UPAS- 120, Pusa 992, Type-21 according to the availability of growing period andpurpose Š Š Late maturing species which are ready in about 270 days, should be sown in July. The early maturing species should be sown in the irrigated areas by mid-June so that the crop can be ready by the end of November and sowing of wheat in the first fortnight of December. Š Š Sowing should be done in the back of the plough. According to the species and season, the number of seeds and distance of 2 lines should be 50 cm and the distance between 2 plants should be 20 cm. Use 20 kg seed/ha for allvarieties. Š Š After 20-25 days of sowing, the distance of the plant, the dense plant should be removed and fixed. If sowing is done by the ridge method, yields arehigher. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 56 Š Š Firstly, Treat 1kg seeds with a mixture of 2 grams of thyram and one gram of carbendazim or 4 grams of Trichoderma + 1 gram of carboxyne or carbendazim. Before planting, treat each seed with a unique Rhizobium culture of pigeonpea. A packet of this culture has to be sprinkled over 10 kg of seeds, then mix it lightly with hands, so that a light layer is formed on the seeds. Sow this seed immediately. There is a possibility of the death of culture organisms from strong sunlight. In fields where pigeonpea is being sown for the first time after a long time, it must useculture. Š Š To get a good yield of pigeonpea, 10-15 kg. Nitrogen, 40-45 kg Phosphorus and 20 kg. Sulfur is required. Phosphorus-containing fertilizers like single super phosphate, dye ammonium phosphate should be used for the maximum yield of pigeonpea. Single Super Phosphate per ha. 250 kg or 100 kg Dye ammonium phosphate and 20 kg. Sulfur should be given at the time of sowing in rows.