 in/content/development-two-superior-chickpea- varieties-genomics-assisted-breeding). Similarly, ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 25 in pigeonpea, the varieties and hybrids developed through ICAR-ICRISAT partners accounted for 52% indent of the breeder seed for 2020. The popular varieties and hybrids included Rajeev Lochan, Asha (ICPL 87119), TJT 501, Rajendra Arhar, Jawahar Tur JKM 189, MARUTI (ICP 8863), LRG 52, PRG 176, TS 3R, Pusa 991, and ICPH 267. In groundnut, ICAR-ICRISAT partnership varieties constituted 17% of total breeder seed indent for the year 2018. In pearl millet, about two-thirds of the hybrids grown in India include ICRISAT-bred hybrid parents. These hybrids have contributed to tremendous on- farm cultivar diversity and prevented the outbreak of major downy mildew epidemics. In sorghum, over 2 m ha are covered by over 50 hybrids that were developed based on ICRISAT-bred parental lines or their derivatives. The widely adopted sorghum hybrids include JKSH 22, VJH 540, JKSH 234, JKSH 434, MLSH 296, VIKI 540, GK 4009, and GK 4013. In the recent years, remarkable progress has been made in the development of genomic resources of these crops. The ICRISAT-ICAR partnership together with several other Indian SAUs and partners have generated the genome sequences of pigeonpea, chickpea, pearl millet as well as the resequencing of germplasm collection of pigeonpea, chickpea and pearl millet. Accessibility to high-throughput genotyping platforms has made it possible to develop high density genetic maps. Markers linked to genes and QTLs involved in traits of interests have been identified using genetic mapping or association mapping. These markers are being used in molecular breeding of these crops. Innovations in high throughput phenotyping platforms, bioinformatics, digital data capture, data management, and breeding management system are helping in modernization of breeding programs. This phase of ICAR-ICRISAT collaborative projects is for five years starting from 2019 and includes (i) Genetic improvement of grain legumes and dryland cereals for improved adaptation, yield potential and quality traits; (ii) Ag-biotech traits, new breeding techniques (NBTs) and enabling technologies for grain legumes and dryland cereal crop pipelines; and (iii) Integrating systems analysis and modelling tools to identify interventions that enhance farming systems resilience and nutrition sensitive agricultural value chains in semi-arid regions of India. Genetic improvement of grain legumes and dryland cereals for improved adaptation yield potential and quality traits This project focuses on using integrated breeding approaches for accelerated development of improved breeding materials with diverse traits such as high yield potential, improved tolerance to abiotic and biotic stresses, resilience to climate change, labour-saving traits, market-preferred grain traits, and improved quality of produce.