 The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) implemented a Mission Mode Project on 'Collection, Documentation and Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge' under National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP) during 2000 to 2004. The project aimed at collecting and documenting the ITKs in agriculture and other land-based activities as well as studying their efficacy and validity through experimentation for establishing scientific rationality. The project activities were guided, monitored and supervised by an apex level committee (ITK Information Committee) with all DDGs of ICAR and eminent scientists as members. Information on ITK were initially collected from the secondary sources like journals, reports, thesis, etc. and documented during 2002 in a 411-paged publication entitled 'Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in agriculture - Document 1'. Subsequently, information on indigenous knowledge-based practices were collected from primary sources through voluntary disclosures. These have been documented in three publications entitled 'Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture - Document 2' and its supplements 1 and 2. Experimental validation of 111 ITKs was carried out during 2002-2004 by the scientists of the ICAR Institutes and State Agricultural/Animal Science Universities all over the country under the technical supervision and monitoring of the respective Zonal Technical Coordination Committees (ZTCCs), and under overall supervision of the Mission Unit and the Lead Centre of the project. Each Zonal Technical Co-ordination Committee identified the Co-operating Centres and the Co- operating Centre Principal Investigators (CCPI) for conducting experimental studies of their respective subject matter area. Scientists of related disciplines were associated in the experiments. The findings of the experiments were reviewed by the ZTCCs, and in the meetings convened by the Principal Investigators. The initial results of 111 selected ITKs were published during 2003 in the fourth volume entitled, 'Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture - Document 3'. Some of the promising ITKs were subjected to cross-sectoral validation studies at additional research centres, while some of them required further studies as well as in-depth analysis, including identifying active ingredients contained in it. The results of 38 ITKs have been included in this volume entitled, 'Cross-sectoral Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture - Document 4', out of 38 ITKs, 23 were validated cross sectoral, i.e. at more than one location in different zones and 15 were single center experiments.