 In this study, CRISPR/Cas9 gene- editing technology was used to introduce specific modifications in the maize EPSPS gene, a crucial enzyme in the shikimic acid pathway targeted by glyphosate. A robust CRISPR/Cas9 vector system, employing maize codon-optimized SpCas9, to precisely edit the ZmEPSPS gene was developed. A homology donor repair vector encoding a mutated mZmEPSPS sequence with triple amino acid substitutions (G163A, T164I, and P168S) was created. Biolistic-mediated transformation successfully integrated the CRISPR/Cas9 expression cassette and the HDR-mZmEPSPS template into maize cultivars, resulting in the generation of tailored maize plants. Rigorous screening confirmed the successful integration of the desired genetic modifications in edited plants through PCR and Sanger sequencing. Southern blot analysis confirmed the presence of the Cas9 gene in various copies at random locations in the transformed maize lines. Transgene-free progeny was obtained, ensuring that the desirable traits could pass on without the presence of foreign genetic material. Functional validation of foliar spray experiments substantiated the enhanced glyphosate tolerance in edited maize lines, The edited maize lines exhibited high tolerance to glyphosate (3 ml/L Roundup-Ready), with no discernible yield penalty. The edited plant seeds were subjected to glyphosate-containing media, and the edited lines displayed normal growth in the presence of glyphosate, showing their enhanced tolerance. The edited lines also outperformed control plants in physiological parameters such as net photosynthesis rate and Photosystem II efficiency under glyphosate stress. Further analyses revealed reduced damage and higher chlorophyll content in edited lines as compared to control plants when exposed to various doses of glyphosate. The edited lines were self-crossed to achieve homozygosity, and the Cas9 gene was successfully removed, resulting in “Cas9 gene-free” edited maize lines with no phenotypic abnormalities. The transformative potential of CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome editing in developing herbicide-resistant crops has been highlighted. It not only addresses the critical issue of weed infestation but also Molecular and morphological validation of T2 generation maize plants. (A) T2 edited maize plants healthy grown in the field and under greenhouse conditions. (B) The negative Cas9 T2 edited lines confirmed by PCR analysis. Molecular weight marker 1kb was loaded in lane L. Lanes that contain edited lines are lane T2-M1-1 to T2-M7-3 with comparison to plasmid pCris-TK1 act as a positive control in lane PC, wild type in lane WT and water as a control in lane WC. (C) Southern blot analysis for the identification of T-DNA free segregants. In lanes S1-S7 no signal was detected, confirms the presence of T-DNA-free T2 segregants. M- Marker, PC- positive control (Cas9), WT- wild type plant.