 Onion The recommended varieties of Onion are VL Pyaz 3, Agrifound Light Red (ALR), Pusa red, Nasik reed, Pusaratnar, Arkaniketan, Arkabindu, Arkapragati, Agri found light red, Agri found rose, Pnjab selection, Pusa white flet. For an area of one ha 8-10 kg seed is sufficient. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 78 Fertilizers and manure: 100 kg/ha Nitrogen, 60 kg/ha Phosphorus, 80 kg/ha Potash and 20-30 Tonnes well decomposed farmyard manure should be applied in one ha area. Seed treatment should be done with 2 gm thiram/kg seed or 5-10 gm biofungicide Trichoderma spp/kg of seed The right time of nursery sowing is October month and transplanting should be done in the month of December to overcome bolting problem. Stemphyllum disease can be managed by spraying of mencozeb @ 2.5 gm/litre after 10 -15 days interval with sticker. Purple disease can be managed by spraying of defeconazole @1ml/ litre with sticker after 10-15 days interval after disease incidence. Thrips insect can be managed by spraying Imidacloprid insecticide (17.8 SL) @ 3ml/10 litre. Potato Hybrid varieties of potato are Kufri Jyoti, Kufri Giriraj, Kufri Jawahar, kufri Bahar, Kufri satraj, Kufri chipsona, Kufri Lalima and Kufri chandan. The recommended time of sowing is October second fortnight for Plain, Bhawar and Trai area while in irrigated valley (up to 3000 ft) Mid Sept. to Mid Oct. Irrigated valley (up to 5000 ft) Jan-Feb. For an area of one ha 25-30 quintal seed is sufficient. Fertilizers and manure: 180 kg/ha Nitrogen, 80 kg/ha Phosphorus, 80 kg/ha Potash and 20-25 Tonnes well decomposed farmyard manure should be applied in one ha area. Green leafy vegetables for Nutrition Garden The recommended varieties of radish are Japanese long and Doonagiri gol 8-10 kg/ha seed is sufficient. Sowing time is Sept to Jan for Plain, Bhawar and Trai area, Sept. to Oct. for Lower hilly area while June to July for hill area. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 79 The recommended seed rate for coriander is 20-25 kg/ha for varieties of Pant haritima and Pant dhaniya 1. The recommended variety of Spinach is All green and seed rate is 25-30 kg/ha. Apple In lower hilly and hill area the time of sowing is December to first fortnight of February. General varieties for cultivation are Red delicious, Royal delicious, Golden delicious, Rinch-A-Red, Red gold, Early sanwari, Fany, Chuabatia princess, Rimer. Early colouring varieties for cultivation are Wash delicious, Bright, and early, skyline, supreme delicious, top red delicious, hardy man. Spur varieties for cultivation are red spur, silver spur, rd chief, arigansper, hardy man spur, golden spar, super chief, scarlet spur 2. Prepare tree basins and apply recommended dose of FYM (100 kg/ plant), Nitrogen (1.5 kg Urea per tree basin), Phosphorous (SSP 2 kg per plant) and potash (MOP 1.7 kg per plant) for plants of age more than 10 years.