 Keywords: manas, check dam, fish catching Shri Sandesh Senari, Tiswadi, Amona, Bieholim, North Goa (Goa) 403 402 Content 13 Ethno-Botany and Agro-Biodiversity Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3497 Indigenous cultivation of safed moosali, a medicinal plant 3498 Indigenous uses of mahua tree (kalpa vriksha) People of Jhadol village of district Udaipur in Rajasthan cultivate safed moosali by the following way: Field is prepared by 4—5 ploughing s after heavy manuring @ 6 tonnes/acre with application of tank bed soil. Ridges and furrows are made at a distance of 1 foot and height of 9 inches. Root slips, at least 2 roots of 3-4 inches length, are planted 6 inches apart at both sides and middle of the ridges at a depth of 2-3 inches. Field is kept free of weeds and irrigated at 8-10 days interval. In the furrow kangani is sown in October. The crop matures in October. The people of the area reported that safed moosali could be easily stored in situ field up to March. At the beginning of summer, a pit of 9 inches is dug beneath a mango tree and safed moosali is kept in it. The pit is covered with dry field soil. Keywords: safed moosali, cultivation, storing Mahua is one of the most useful trees of the tribal area, including entire Udaipur district and Aravalli hills of Rajasthan. People of village Naya Talab, Hathai in Dungarpur district in Rajasthan are having the following use of mahua tree: Shri Khayali Lai Pandiya, village Jhadol, district Udaipur (Rajasthan) Shri Rama ji, S/o Shri Kan ji Nanoma, Maya Talab, Hothal, Dungarpur (Rajasthan) 314 034 Medicinal use of mahua leaves: Mahua leaves are used for medicinal purpose by the tribal people. It is found to be effective in external injury. Green mahua leaves are smeared with Content ETHNO-BOTANY AND AGRO-BIODIVERSITY Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator oil or ghee and are kept on the swollen parts of the body. Then it is tied with bandages. Thus swelling is reduced. Keywords: mahua leaves, injury, ghee Preparation of drink: Dry mahua flowers (4 kg) is kept in a pot and 12 litres of water is added in it. This mixture is allowed to ferment for 3 days in summer and 5 days in winter. This fermented material is then distilled and the prepared material is called mahuai. This is not harmful for health if consumed as medicine in small quantity. Mahuai is found to be effective against the internal injury and pneumonia in infants. It is also used as a vermicide for sheep and goat. Keywords: flower, fermentation, liquor, medicine Tonic of roasted dry flowers: For roasting, kelari (a round pot made of clay) is used. About 250 g dry mahua flowers are taken in kelari and it is roasted for 3-5 min after adding ghee. It is consumed during rainy season or when excess work is done by man. It reduces tiredness and the person feels easy and fresh.