 Š Š Foliar spray of 1-3% urea (alone or with0.5% ZnSO4), 2% DAP, 2% 13:0:45 or 2% 19:19:19 solutions during intermittent drought and immediately after rains to rejuvenate the crops. Š Š Light textured soils are not suitable for rainfed soybean cultivation, sow soybean in black soils only. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 176 Š Š Use of organic manures or water absorbing agrochemicals viz. hydrogel enhances moisture availability in field. Š Š Emphasis on intercropping of cereals/millets /castor and legumes/oilseeds for sustainable crop yields. Š Š Give lifesaving irrigation at critical crop growth stages preferably through sprinkler or drip system, if feasible. NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT Š Š Fertilizers to crops are to be applied based on soil test results. Before monsoon is the suitable time for collection of soil sample for soil testing. Š Š Application of compost/ farm yard manure to soil improves soil standards water holding capacity and soil fertility. Apply it 3 weeks before sowing to get better results. Š Š Enrichment of FYM with bio agents viz., Trichoderma sp and Pseudomonas sp Š Š After the harvest of the rabi crops, incorporation of crop residues @ 5t./ha improves the soil physical property, infiltration rate and soil water holding capacity. Š Š Preparation of compartmental bunds (3x3 m size) in the month of June. These bunds are retained till the sowing of rabi crops which helps in the conservation of excess soil moisture in rainfed areas. Š Š In-situ soil moisture conservation technologies like BBF, tied ridging, ridges and furrow are adopted to increase the available soil moisture to crops like pigeonpea, sunflower, bajra etc. Š Š Chisel plough helps to conserve soil moisture in dryland areas. It also helps to break the hard pan of soil & increase the infiltration capacity of soil. Crop specific contingency measures for rainfall deficit/prolonged dry spells Finger millet Delayed onset / deficit rainfall situation (15 June - 15 July): Use 50% higher seed rate with varieties GPU 28, GPU 66, GPU 67, GPU 26, GPU 45, GPU 48, ML 365, MR 1, MR 6, Indaf 7 and Indaf 9, Seed hardening (18 hrs soaking in water followed by 24 hrs shade drying) Early season drought (16-31 July): Dry sowing under insufficient moisture availabilitrey situations with 50% higher seed rate, Seed hardening (soak 18 hrs in water then dry in shade for 24hrs), Thinning in already sown crop, If plant stand is too poor, remove seedlings and plant them on one side of the land after receipt of rains and go for sowing of litretle millet (JK 8, OLM 203 and OLM 36) / foxtail millet (PS 4, TNAU 186 SiA 326, HMT 100-1) or horse gram (PHG-9 , BJPL-1, BGM- 1) as an alternate crop, Interculture to remove weeds and create soil mulch. Raising seedlings in nursery and transplanting after receiving sufficient rains.