 Also, there is an information system for personnel, financial management, project management and e-office management. Timely availability of information has improved the quality of research planning, enabled judicious use of resources, and directed programs to target groups. These efforts have paid dividends in terms of better access to disadvantageous groups to improved technology, quality input like seed and planting material. The use of information communication technology (ICT) has facilitated such an improved information system in ICAR that has been adopted by other research organizations like state agricultural universities. Efforts are being made to develop the information system for research outputs, technology, and their dissemination, outcomes and impacts. 7. Swaraj through Village Institutions Gandhiji always believed in strong village institutions for the overall development of the society in the rural areas as the concentration of economic or political power would violate the principles of participatory democracy and thereby of Swaraj. To promote decentralization, Gandhii suggested the institutions of villages as units of economic autonomy. He started Sevagram yojana in Wardha district of Maharashtra in 1934 to make villages self-sufficient and self-contained. His ideas and perspectives in terms of rural reconstruction were adopted officially and resulted in the Panchayati Raj movement. The village is the lowest unit of a decentralized system, politically a village has to be small enough to permit everyone to participate directly in the decision-making process. It is the basic institution of participatory democracy. Agricultural development activities got a push under this system especially when MNREGA activities were converged with agricultural development activities like creating bunds for soil 11 and water conservation, rejuvenation of common water resources, pasture land development activities for enhanced availability of forage for animals etc. ICAR institutes especially working under Natural Resource Management and Crop Science Divisions are working for the development of watersheds with the active involvement of gram panchayats in different states of the country. Besides this, ICAR in partnership with ICRISAT, State development department and Panchayats has also developed watersheds in different parts of the country. Successful adoption and replication of these water conservation techniques and agroforestry were useful in addressing the problems of soil erosion and water crisis for drinking as well as for irrigation. For efficient utilization of water, user associations were created at different project sites. All these watersheds developed by ICAR institutes have empowered poor rural communities residing in those areas by creating better access to quality drinking water and higher income from agriculture and livestock activities.