 yy In case there is any public interest from tourism point of view, conducted tours of the institute can be arranged whenever possible (preferably on holidays). Such activity can be used to generate some revenue as well. However, over-engagement of staff & time, and exposure to sensitive and/or dangerous areas/ environment must be avoided. yy All deemed to be universities should annually organise alumni meet and promote use of ICAR branded items. Website of the Institute yy Website of an Institute should be GIGW compliant and should have appropriate security certification. Detailed GIGW guidelines given at https://web.guidelines.gov.in may be adhered to. yy It is recommended to host the website on ICAR data centre. If the current website is not hosted on ICAR data centre then efforts should be made to switch it to ICAR server at the earliest. yy Update website frequentry on new achievement, event, and other important news as soon as they happen, also send the same to DKMA for update in ICAR web portal simultaneously. yy At Institute level, the content of website should be audited and approved by competent authority designated by the Director of the institute. yy All pictures/photographs used in the website should have appropriate aspect ratio so that they don’t look distorted. yy The pictures/photographs used in website should be original digital pictures (jpeg, tiff, raw format) appropriately edited for better visibility and clarity. Pictures imported from documents or presentations should be avoided since there is considerable loss of resolution in such images, and some do have proprietary issues. yy The pictures should look to have been shot in their appropriate environment and surroundings and should have good contrast between object of interest and its background. yy The Tab(meta) title in all websites should have institute name in the format “ICAR- Institute Name”. yy The FAVICON for all websites should be ICAR logo only. GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 5 Pointers for utilizing potential spaces in the institutional area for brand visibility and advertisements The following potential spaces have been identified for promotion of brand ICAR: yy Building facades yy Fences and boundary wall yy Farm/field facing roads, cross roads, public thoroughfare yy Entrance gates yy Official vehicles Walls, Banners, Display Areas yy Display of ICAR logo at all prominent offices and places of ICAR institutes. Institute logo, if any, may also be displayed without compromising prominence of ICAR logo. Buildings facades – possible usage yy For projecting ICAR & Institute’s logo, vision, mission to make people understand the importance of the institute and ICAR. yy These walls, if big and plain can also have ICARs vision and tagline.