 In addition, eight high yielding varieties of crops including three rice varieties namely RC Maniphou-14, RC Maniphou-15 and RC Maniphou-16; two General view of farming system developed in different north- eastern states IOFS models developed in Tripura and Meghalaya Research for Tribal and Hill Regions icar annual report 2022-23 203 Two rice varieties namely (a) ICAR-NEH NICRA Hill Rice 2022-2 and (b) ICAR NEH NICRA-Boro Dhan 1 developed by ICAR-RC- NEHR, Tripura Centre Guava variety Megha Magenta Ceremonial release of crop varieties by Hon’ble Chief Minister of Manipur (a) (b) perilla varieties namely RC Manithoiding-1 and RC Manithoiding-2; one brinjal variety RC Manikhamen-1 and two maize varieties RC Manichujak-1 and RC Manichujak-2 developed by ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Manipur Centre were recommended by SVRC, Manipur and ceremonially released by Hon’ble Chief Minister of Manipur. Three rice varieties have higher yields potential of 7-8 t/ha with soft cooking quality and recommended for main rainy (kharif) season under transplanted conditions of the state. Perilla varieties RC Manithoiding-1 and -2 which were the first high yielding perilla varieties released so far. The varieties are rich in oil content (~45% and 41% oil). Brinjal variety RC Mankahmen-1 has potential yield is 340 q/ha and high tolerance to bacterial wilt. Maize variety RC Manichujak-1 is a flint corn variety and RC Manichujak-2 is a popcorn variety and both maize varieties are recommended for rainy (kharif) season in the state. ISLAND AND COASTAL REGION Rice-based Integrated Farming System model for west coast region: Rice-based farming system model (crop-dairy-fishery) for 0.5 ha lowland situations of the west coast region was developed. Different enterprises were: rice followed by cowpea/green gram/vegetables/ baby corn/sweet corn - 0.4 ha, forage grown on bunds (Hybrid Napier - 0.032 ha), dairy (24 m2 - two crossbred Research for Tribal and Hill Regions cows, one female calf- 24 m2), FYM unit (10 m2) and kitchen garden (80 m2). The net return from the 0.5 ha model was R 1.39 lakhs and the highest contribution was from crops (56%), followed by dairy (32%) and fishery (12%) Fly Cocobot (A drone-based coconut harvester– a nationally awarded concept): Timely harvesting of coconut is a big problem of farmers due to poor icar annual report 2022-23 204 Eight crop varieties, (A) Rice variety RC Maniphou 14, (B) Rice variety RC Maniphou 15, (C) Rice variety RC Maniphou 16, (D) Perilla variety RC Manithoiding-1, (E) Perilla Variety RC Manithoiding-2, (F) Brinjal variety RC Manikhamen-1, (G) Flint corn synthetic variety RC-Manichujak-1, (H) Pop corn variety RC Manichujak-2 Developed by ICAR-RC-NEHR, Manipur Centre. C E G D H F A B availability of “Padelis” (traditional coconut harvesters) as there are risks involved and practical difficulty in climbing in coconut-blackpepper system, a most common practice in the entire coastal region.