 Therefore, if we add to those demands the requirement for personal commitment on the part of the worker, regarded as an agent of change, it becomes clear that highly subjective qualities, innate or acquired, that often company heads call ‘life skills’, combine with knowledge and know how, that education must maintain with the various aspects of learning. Dematerialization of the economies and rise of the service sector The consequences to education: Services, which form a very varied category, can best be defined by what they are not; they are neither industrial nor agricultural and despite their variety, have in common the fact that they do not produce any material goods. Many services are defined principally in terms of the interpersonal relationships they involve. It can be imagined that in the high-tech organizations of the future, relational difficulties might create serious dysfunctions calling for new type of skills, more behavioural than intellectual. This creates opportunities for people with few or no formal educational qualifications. Intuition, flair, judgement and the ability to hold a team together are not necessarily abilities peculiar to those with the highest paper qualifications. How and where are these qualities to be taught? It is not easy to imagine the content of training programmes that will produce the required abilities and aptitudes. The same problem arises in connection with vocational training. NEP has taken note of this concern and recommended restructuring course curricula to address the issue. OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 33 Pointers: Four Pillars of Education Education thoughout life is based on the following four pillar: yy Learning to know, by combining a sufficiently broad general knowledge with the opportunity to work in depth on a small number of subjects. This also means learning to learn, so as to benefit from the opportunities education provides though out life. yy Learning to do, in order to acquire not only an occupational skill but also, more broadly, the competence to deal with many situations and work in teams. It also means learning to do in the context of young peoples’ various social and work experiences which may be informal, as a result of the local or national context, or formal, involving courses, alternating study work. yy Learning to live together, by developing an understanding of other people and an appreciation of interdependence – carrying out joint projects and learning to manage conflicts – in a spirit of respect for the values of pluralism, mutual understanding and peace. yy Learning to be, so as to develop one’s personality better and be able to act with ever greater autonomy, judgement and personal responsibility. In that connection, education must not disregard any aspect of a person’s potential : memory, reasoning, aesthetic sense, physical capacities and communication skills. iii. Learning to live together with others A learning that is probably be a major issue in education today.