 Then the juice from the chopped mixture is extracted and this liquid is given orally to animals suffering from blood discharge. Keywords: bheemkol, chopped A paste is prepared by crushing 200- 300 g kakai and it is given twice daily to affected animals to control diarrhoea. Cattle owners of village Pachhomi in district Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh follow this practice. Keywords: kakai, diarrhoea About 1 kg bark of mango (Mangifera indica) trunk and 500 g bark of kumbi kaliyo (Careya arborea) are crushed. About 1 litre water is added to it and kept for 1-2 hr. The liquid is then strained through a thin cloth and 250 ml is administered to animals orally twice a day for 2 days. About 20% population of the village has been using this technique for the last 20 years. Keywords: kumbi kaliyo, mango, strained, trunk About 25 g thin roots of Schrebera sweietenioides, locally known narkhi- markhi, are mixed and finely crushed, and a solution is prepared by adding water to it. This solution is given to the cattle to drink, or roots of narkhi- markhi can be given 4 - 5 times for 2 days by mixing with fodder or chapatis. Animal gets cured within 3 -4 days. This is a traditional method being used for a long time. Keywords: narkhi-markhi, chapati Shri Pallav Saikia, P Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Bandha Shah, S/o Shri Hanna Bakash, Pachhomi, Faridpur, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Nathubhai Hirabhai Prajapati, Khanpur Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Jivalyabhai Bachubhai Gaekwad, Garudia Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3050 Use of leaves of betel and omam for curing diarrhoea in goats 3051 Cure of diarrhoea in catties by using bark of kangoo and mustard seed 3052 Treatment of diarrhoea in animals by bakena leaves and barely flour 3053 Treatment of diarrhoea in catties by kharia soil and gular {Ficus glomerata) In this practice, 2 leaves of Piper betel (betel) and Coleus aromaticus (omam) and are ground and a fine paste is prepared by adding water. About 50 ml water is added to the prepared paste and this extract is given to the goat along with 1/4-teaspoonful asafoetida. Keywords: betel, omam, asafoetida A mixture of bark of kangoo (Flacortia indica) and mustard seed is used to cure diarrhoea in cattle by the people of Shimla district in Himachal Pradesh since long. About 5 g bark paste of kangoo plant and 2 g mustard seed are heated in an earthen pot and given with curd twice daily to the infected cattle. Keywords: diarrhoea, cattle, kangoo, mustard seed, curd Paste of bakena leaves (10-20 leaves) is mixed with 250 g barley flour. The prepared mixture is given to the animal twice daily to cure diarrhoea.