 Additionally, it influences water availability and overall food security. In India, the major challenge of climate change is rainfall variability, which causes frequent dry spells, floods and drought. Reduction in summer monsoon rainfall, and more frequent and intense extreme weather events (such as landslides, cyclones, floods, hailstorms, and droughts) have been observed in recent decades affecting agricultural productivity. Furthermore, the increase or decrease in temperature is also a major concern. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has reported a mean increase of global temperature by 0.74°C in the past century, with a projected further increase of 1.8–4°C by 2100. The impact of climate change is more significant in rainfed regions comprising of 86% resource poor small and marginal farmers which further aggravates the situation. Climate change could potentially decrease the crop productivity in India by 4.5–9% annually during the 2020–2039. Agriculture is not only a victim of climate change but it is a contributor to climate change since agriculture is a significant source of greenhouse gas emissions (19.6% of total emissions) (FAOSTAT). Hence, the agricultural practices which increases the capacity of the system to respond to various climate-related disturbances by resisting or tolerating the damage and recovering quickly (adaptation practices) are need of the hour. Besides adaptation, these practices should also have low environmental impact, in addition to mitigation potential (reduction in GHG emissions and increase in carbon sequestration). These practices with both adaptation and mitigation potential are climate resilient agricultural practices (CRA) which enhances crop productivity to contribute to higher income, food security and improve livelihoods of rural communities. It is essential to explore, develop, and scale up location-specific climate-resilient technologies to tackle the challenges posed by climate change in rainfed agro- ecosystems. These challenges include droughts, dry spells, uneven rainfall distribution, soil erosion, low soil moisture, floods, and extreme temperatures. Effective natural resource management and improved crop production technologies are crucial to addressing these issues. Indian Farming 75 (01): 73-77; January 2025 Indian Farming 74 January 2025 Climate resilient technologies: Adaptation and mitigation of climate change The impact of climate stresses can be reduced with help of technologies like selection of site-specific efficient smart cropping systems, varieties, crop diversification, water harvesting for conserving water resources, contingency planning etc. Integration of forecasting tools, agro-advisories, integrated farming system, carbon sequestration and resource management at community levels are few measures which are effective in developing climate resilient agriculture (Table 1). Table 1.