 • Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode contractual research project on various diseases i.e IBR, BVD, Leptospirosis, Brucellosis etc. Diagnostic kits available at ICAR-NIVEDI NADRES v2 : Disease forecasting and forewarning web application 155 Animal Sciences 155 ICAR-National Research Centre on Meat 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-National Research Centre on Meat, Hyderabad Chengicherla, PB. No. 19, Boduppal Post, Hyderabad 500092 Telangana ii. Name of the Director: Dr S. B. Barbuddhe iii. Email address / Phone No.: E mail: director.nrcmeat@icar.gov.in; Phone: 040-29801672 2. Mandate and activities • Basic and applied research in meat science and technology for meat production, processing, value addition and utilization • Capacity development for different levels of personnel in meat sector • National repository of information in meat and allied sectors. 3. Salient achievements • Established NABL accredited meat species identification laboratory by covering 12 species including wild animals • Established package of practices for production of organic meat from sheep • Designed Portable and Meat Production and Retailing Facility (P-MART) for sheep and goats • Implemented mobile meat stall scheme with Govt of Karnataka under which 180 mobile meat stalls were provided by subsidy programs benefiting 180 stakeholders. • Established model small ruminant slaughterhouse at Tirupati • Established block chain based traceability system for Indian buffalo meat sector • Till date provided 47 consultancies to entrepreneurs, licensed technologies to 26 entrepreneurs, completed 12 contract research projects with the industry, organized 109 training programs and signed MoUs with 16 Universities from across India • ICAR NRC on Meat has been recognized as host institute by MSME, as FoSTaC Training Centre by FSSAI, accredited by ASCI for supply chain management and animal health worker training programme and recognize as National Referral laboratory for Meat and Meat Products by FSSAI. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products/other services available for different stake holders • Technologies for hygienic meat production and value addition to meat • Models for implementation of the livestock and meat traceability 156 ICAR Institutes Profile 156 • Portable meat production and retailing facilities for hygienic meat production from small ruminants under small scale system • Field level LFA based kits for species identification of pork and chicken • Service facility for species identification of the meat and meat products • Training programs on hygienic meat production, value addition to meat and quality evaluation of meat and meat products • Consultancy services for establishment of the slaughterhouses and meat product processing plants.