 The head of host organization will need to furnish reasons for not conducting the SAC in a year, to Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension) through Zonal Project Director for administrative decision on the issue. ●Chief Scientist will ensure implementation of recommendations of SAC within the stipulated time frame and report the action taken, to the Director of Extension Education and Zonal Project Director. ●In addition to English, the agenda notes and proceedings of SAC shall be prepared in local language too for distribution to the SAC Members. 3. Mandatory procedure for conducting SAC meeting ●Conduct SAC meeting according to the agenda items circulated. ●Chief Scientist of KVK will present the following aspects during the SAC meeting. – Action taken report on the recommendations of the previous meeting with qualitative and quantitative data – Overall achievements of the KVK during the period under review, budget utilization, revolving fund status and organizational development. – Information on linkages established, exhibitions organized, externally funded project activities, new methodologies developed, income generating activities undertaken, and the status of demonstration units, KVK farm activities, revenue generated with qualitative and quantitative data. – Status of submission of AUC, Monthly/Quarterly/Annual Reports. – Number of farmers visited, farm advisory services undertaken, technology and knowledge products dissemination, web site management etc. 53 Annexures ●Each scientist of KVK should individually give details about the problem diagnosis, activities planned in terms of OFT, FLD, training programmes as well as the outcome of the preceding year’s activities. Details of farmers and villages where activities were undertaken should also be given. ●Technical programme to address the problems noticed/emerging problems in the cluster villages must be proposed and got approved by the SAC. ●The problem dynamics and training needs should reflect in the programmes planned by KVK team. ●In addition to these mandatory items, other items, which are pertinent to improve the KVK functioning, may also be included 54 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of Krishi Vigyan Kendra ANNEXURE-VI Joint-Coordination Committees on Frontline Extension Management 1.