 Aquaculture in the present day is heading towards intensification partly because of the need of a section of the farmers to sustain in the system against the increasing production cost, and partly because of the greed of the other section of the farmers due to unawareness of the consequence or no thought about the consequence of the ecosystem health. However, unlike the agricultural land resources, a major portion of our natural water resources remain untapped. In such a context, the need to increase in fish production should focus on sustainable development through horizontal expansion of the culture area and judicious utilization of the resource capacity for a vertical increase rather than perturbing the ecosystem balance through intensive farming practices. The country has floated the slogan ‘Atma Nirvar Bharat’, thus bringing the ideology of Bapuji to the forefront of our thinking and planning process. Thus, self- reliance in aquaculture/fisheries should encompass the sustainability, social equity, eco-based activities with due consideration for economic viability. ICAR institutes with their state-of-the-art scientific facilities and infrastructure and a pro-farmer policy can fulfil Gandhiji’s dream of self-reliance and Gram Swaraj. Both the government and the farmers should work in tandem for the re-introduction of newer techniques aimed at eco-based farming models utilizing natural resources through a sustainable aquaculture approach. Local Self-Reliance in Aquaculture and Fisheries: Gandhian Models 60 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Chapter 6 Agro-biodiversity, Ecology and Agriculture: Gandhian Thoughts TR Sharma, Kuldeep Singh, Kavita Gupta, N Sivaraj and John K Joseph “Respect earth and life in all its diversity. Recognize that all beings are interdependent and every form of life has value regardless of its worth to human beings.” MK Gandhi 1. Introduction Gandhian thoughts and vision of life and diversity on earth and its safety are much older than the systematic scientific studies of biodiversity promulgated since 1980s. Agricultural biodiversity (or agro-biodiversity), as defined by FAO, includes all the animal, plant, and microorganism species that sustain agricultural ecosystems, and the variety between and within them, and is essential to food and nutrition security. The genetic variability for plants, animals, and micro-organisms being explored for food production and agriculture, mainly include crops, livestock, forestry, and fisheries. It also includes the diversity of non-harvested species (soil micro-organisms, predators, pollinators) that support agro-ecosystems including agricultural, pastoral, forest and aquatic life (FAO 2004). Recently, the father of the green revolution in India Dr. MS Swaminathan (2020) stated, “Agro-biodiversity, thus provides a foundation for food, nutrition, and livelihood security. Diversity, in fact, is the basis for crop security.