 Keywords: intercropping, marigold, trap crop 2042 Intercropping of cucumber with castor and sorghum for trapping red hairy caterpillar About 30-40% small and marginal farmers of Devarippula, Jangaon and Shadnagar mandals of Nalgonda, Warangal and Mahaboobnagar districts of Andhra Pradesh are using this practice since 75 years to control red hairy caterpillar in castor and sorghum. In this practice, about 100 g cucumber seed is sown with castor and sorghum for trapping red hairy caterpillar (Amsacta albistrga) as alternate host. The caterpillar prefers cucumber plants to castor or sorghum for feeding. While they are engaged on cucumber, castor and sorghum grow up sufficiently to withstand the subsequent attack by the caterpillar. Consumption of pesticide is reduced by this practice. Cucumber is a popular vegetable crop. Additional cost on cucumber seed is only Rs 2.0 per acre but ample benefit and income is assured from harvest of the fruits. Keywords: red hairy caterpillar, alternate host, cucumber, sorghum, castor Shri R Lingaiah Secretary (Crops), 4-5-15 Venkanna Kunta, Jangaon, Warangal (Andhra Pradesh) 506 167 2311 Setting of biological traps to control red hairy caterpillar in castor The practices enumerated by Dr. S. Subba Reddy and Singh are mentioned below (a) Control of red hairy caterpiller: Some farmers of Medak and Nalgonda districts of Andhra Pradesh spread twigs of aak (Calotropis procera) and Jatropha sp on field boundaries to control red hairy caterpillar. While feeding on the traps, the larvae of the pest are collected and destroyed with kerosene. The alkaloid present in Calotropis and Jatropha acts as a repellent Keyword: biological trap, red hairy caterpillar, castor (b) Control of castor semilooper by cooked rice: Semilooper (Achaea janata) causes severe Dr G. Subba Reddy and Dr H. P. Singh, Central Research Institute for dryland Agriculture, Santosh Nagar, Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh) 500 059  damage to castor during monsoon. The farmers of castor growing areas of Andhra Pradesh sprinkle cooked rice and other food grains in the field in July to attract birds/ predators to control semilooper. Further, castor is isolated with sorghum to minimize the incidence of root wilt in castor. Keywords: castor, semilooper, cooked rice, predator (c) Contral of Spodoptera litura in groundnut through trap crop: Spodoptera in groundnut is controlled by the farmers of Warangal district of Andhra Pradesh by growing castor as a trap crop in groundnut. Castor attracts Spodoptera litura and thereby reduces damage to groundnut. Bird perchers are also used to create resting place for birds to control natural pests. Keywords: Spodoptera litura, natural pest, trap crop, castor (d) Control of Helicoverpa in sunflower: This ITK is traditionally practised in Rayalaseema and Telangana regions of Andhra Pradesh. Thorns are used to pick up the caterpillar manually to reduce the yield loss.