 Keywords: groundnut harvesting, bamboo sticks Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2345 Mulching of mustard field with cowdung Mustard field is mulched by spreading with a thin layer cowdung during December, just before the snow fall, taking proper care that cowdung is evenly and properly spread throughout field. The mulching helps to moderate temperature Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E- Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology,  and protect the plants. Thus the plant is survived during the flowering period from adverse effects of snowfall and frost. It helps to conserve moisture, reduce evaporation and improve physical conditions of the soil by increasing its organic matter content. This is practiced in hilly areas of Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: mulching, layer of cowdung, Etemperature Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documenta tion and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher- Etemperature Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2332 Mixing of mustard seed with friable soil for uniform broadcast of seed in the field The mustard seed, being very small in size, is difficult for the farmers to broadcast uniformly in the field. So the seed is mixed with soil and then broadcast. The practice is advantageous in maintaining uniformity in the broadcast of seed. This also helps in sowing seeds uniformly in the field, which in turn results in uniform plant population. This technique involves no cost at all and is skill-oriented. Keywords: friable soil, uniform broadcast Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E- Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2303 Use of cowdung and mud slurry for seed treatment of desi cotton Due to fuzzyness, it is difficult to sow cotton seed as such. To cope up with the problem, farmers of Dhule, Nandurbar, Jalgaon and Ahmednagar districts of Maharashtra, treat the cotton seed with cowdung and mud slurry. It facilitates easy sowing of cotton seeds. According to seed quantity, cowdung is mixed with soil in proper proportion to prepare a slurry to spread over the seed. The seeds are rubbed to apply slurry uniformly. It is then dried under shade. After drying, the seeds are sown. This treatment is given a day before sowing. It also helps in good germination, thereby giving 10% more yield.