 Before adopting this technique, there were hardly one or two orchards with same type of clones in large numbers, however the scenario has changed tremendously as now many orchard having elite clones with sufficient numbers are available. In Dhrub village of Kachchh, more than 95% farmers are propagating through offshoots. For further interaction, please write to: Kapil Mohan Sharma (Scientist), Date Palm Research Station, Mundra-Kachchh, Gujarat 370 421. *Corresponding author’s email: k.m.sharma456@sdau.edu.in January–February 2022 33 Moumita Malakar*, S Divyagana, S Sankavi, S Shivabalan and V Allwin Prospects O rchids come in every colour of the rainbow, with the exception of one. Whatever the occasion or mood, it is likely that there is a colour of orchid to express it. Orchids bloom in every colour—from deep fuchsia to white to green-except black and although they’re rare, there are even true-blue orchids, and ones that bloom in dual colour combos like lavender and pink or green and yellow. That’s just one of many reasons why orchids can be so versatile, acting as stand-alone centre-pieces or as exotic additions to other arrangements. Cultural ornamental uses Chiefly orchids cultivation has come in vogue for the enjoyment of flowers. Along with all tropical and subtropical orchids, some of the temperate species like Ophrys apifera (bee orchid),Gymnadenia conopsea (fragrant orchid), Anacamptis pyramidalis (pyramidal orchid) and Dactylorhiza fuchsii (common spotted orchid) are also available in the market. Orchid flowers admiration both for ornamental value and cultural, religious ceremonies too is evinced since time immemorial. For example, flowers of Dendrobium maccarthiae Thwaites are used as special temple offerings in Sri Lanka, and flowers and pseudobulbs of species of Laelia Lindl. are used in Mexican Day of the Dead ceremonies. Owing to augmented trend of growing unusual small-flowered orchids often referred as ‘Botanical orchids’ in parallel with common ‘Florist’ orchid, enormous species (around 1700-2000 species) of Pleurothallis and Bulbophyllum are now added in the wishlist of orchid hobbyists to nourish their aesthetic sense. Cultural symbolism Orchids have many associations with symbolic values. For example, the orchid is the City flower of Shaoxing, China. Cattle yamossiae is the National Venezuelan flower, while Cattleya trianae is the National flower of Colombia. Vanda var. 'Miss Joaquim' is the National flower of Singapore, Guarian theskinneri is the National flower of Costa Rica and Rhyncholaelia digbyana is the National flower of Honduras. Prosthechea cochleata is the National flower of Belize, where it is known as the ‘black orchid’. Lycaste skinneri variety ‘alba’ is the National flower of Guatemala, commonly known as ‘Monja Blanca’ (White Nun). Panama's National flower is the ‘Holy Ghost orchid’ (Peristeria elata). Rhynchostylis retusa is the State flower of the Indian state of Assam where it is known as Kopou Phul.