92) at first instar of FAW, while the maximum Mortality Survivor Ratio (MSR) (0.09) was observed at first instar and minimum MSR (0.01) was obtained at fifth instar. The adult female had the highest number of progeny (number of eggs per female, mx=100.5) in life cycle on the 30th day of pivotal age. The net reproductive rate was 96.2 females/day. The intrinsic rate of natural increase was 0.15 female/ day and the population of FAW would be able to multiply 2.88 times/week on maize. The mean length time required for completing one generation was 30.17 days. The finite rate of increase in number was 1.16 females/day. Mapping of genetic groups of white fly in India: Whitefly, Bemisia tabaci is a polyhagous pest infesting wide variety of crop plants, weeds, ornamental plants etc. in India. It causes significant direct damage to crops and indirectly by transmitting several important plant viruses belonging to Geminiviruses. The host preference and plant virus transmission efficiencies of various genetic groups of B. tabaci were reported to be varying significantly. Therefore, it is essential to determine the distribution of various genetic groups of B. tabaci and their efficiencies in transmitting begomoviruses in various crops across India. A total of 1,005 whitefly samples were collected from 12 different host plants in 72 sites of 14 states including Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Arunachal Pradesh. Total genomic DNA was isolated from 330 individual whiteflies following PCR protocol. Eleven distinct genetic groups of B. tabaci were identified in south, central and few north Indian states from which four genetic groups, Asia I, Asia II-1, Asia II-7 and MEAM-1 were the predominant. Asia I mostly recorded in central and northern states while Asia II-7 widely distributed in South and Central India. Two new genetic CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 68 groups, Asia II-6 and Asia III were recorded in Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh while another new group, Asia II-3 was recorded in Odisha and Maharashtra for the first time. Barcoding of mealybug: Different populations of mealybugs were collected on cassava from Namakkal and Salem Districts of Tamil Nadu during August 2020 and were subjected to molecular identification using cytochrome oxidase –I gene (CO-1). Furthermore, the mealybug sequences were compared with already available sequences in National Centre for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) database. The sequences were matching 100% as Phenacoccus manihoti with GenBank Acc. Nos. KY611349; KY611348; KY611347; KY611346 (deposited from China) and were confirmed as P. manihoti and Genbank Acc No: MT895817 was obtained for the first time in India.