 (under farmer field trials) y Biodegradable electro spun fibre mat developed used in packaging of fresh perishable agricultural material. y A sensing device (IMAGinE) was developed for detection of Chromium (Cr6+) in water. y Biosensor for analysis of urea in adulterated milk. (commercialized) y Decision Support System for enhancing productivity of grapes under moisture and temperature stress conditions. (widely used by farmers) y Developed ShrimpKrishiApp for the shrimp farmers to make real-time based informed decisions. (widely used by shrimp farmers) y Developed NIR hand-held fruit tester for non-destructive quality evaluation of mango. y Developed Nano Chitosan encapsulated green technology to combat antimicrobial resistance in poultry. (commercialised) 3.2 Infrastructure Developed (Mega Facilities) Apart from the support of many sophisticated instruments and equipments for enriching the laboratories, few mega facilities have been created in ICAR with the funding of NASF. y A state-of-the-art automated high throughput plant phenomics facility for non- destructive and accurate characterization of large number of germplasm and recombinant inbred lines under defined environmental treatment conditions was established at IARI, New Delhi. The facility named as Nanaji Deshmukh Plant Phenomics facility was inaugurated by Honourable Prime Minister of India on 11th October 2017. The facility consists of Hi-tech climate controlled green houses, moving field for handling of 1200 plants within the green house and 3 Major Outputs Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 70 to transport them to imaging stations, different imaging platforms viz IR Thermal, Chlorophyll florescence, Visual RGB, NIR root, NIR Shoot, VNIR Hyperspectral and SWIR Hyperspectral sensors for assessing drought and input use efficiency. Many high-profile dignitaries including Dr. M.S.Swaminathan, Dr. Bill Gates, Sh.P.K. Misra, Principal Secretary, PMO have visited the phenomics facility. y The designing, fabrication and construction of the 19.75m energy efficient fishing vessel, christened as ‘FV Sagar Harita’ made at the Goa Shipyard Ltd. The ship could conduct Long line and Gillnet multiday fishing operations for 4-5 days in the depth of 1,500- 1,900 m. Operations have been conducted from 24 stations for high sea gill netting and 6 stations for long lining. The solar energy was used in meeting 20% of the energy needs, onboard. Average diesel consumption was 42 litres/hr in deep sea experimental fishing operations. Low drag shrimp trawls (33 m head rope length) and fish trawls (27 m head rope length) were developed by optimizing the cutting rate which helped in the reduction of drag. The same operations in the commercial trawlers operated at Munambam and Vypeen of Kerala showed a reduction of fuel by 2.5%. Hon. Prime Minister of India Sh. Narendra Modi inaugurating the phenomics facility Dr. M.S.Swaminathan, Dr.