 Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Md. Akil, S/o Shri Md. Sher Mohhamad, Serasa, Balia, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Ranchandra Singh, S/o Shri Lekhraj Singh, village Nawada (Ban), dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the [TK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3086 Treatment of afara in animals with phulsan (Crotolaria juncea) 3087 Treatment of afara in animals with gosraine and salt 3088 Treatment of afara in cattle with seeds and bark of Cassia fistula 3089 Use of kothamara shrub extract to cure afara in cattle Phulsan flowers (250 g) is boiled in water and this water is drenched to animal for curing afara. This practice is being followed in village Sundyaba of district Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh). Keywords: afara, akauwa leaves, mustard oil The people of village Gotia (Larpur) in district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use this ITK. For the treatment of afara, 50 g gosraine leaves are boiled and mixed with 5 g salt. This mixture is given orally thrice daily. This treatment shows effect within 4-5 hr and the animal gets cured. Keywords: afara, gosraine leaves, salt The stomach of suffering animal looks like a drum (swollen), due to excess gas formation, and the hairs are raised. Four seeds of Cassia fistula (kodiyala) are powdered by grinding. Filtrate of 250 g bark of Cassia fistula is added to this powder, which is prepared by dipping the crushed bark in water. This dose is given twice a day up to 3—4 days for complete recovery. A few cattle owners also give about 500 ml whey in addition to this treatment. It is an age-old practice, and is followed by cattle owners of Alwar district in Rajasthan. Keywords: afara, kodiyala, bark, grinding Afara is a dangerous disease in cattle. To cure the afara disease, 200 g bark of shrub kothamara (Anisiphalis rumphii) is taken and ground. The ground material is added to water. The extract is filtered and 250 ml solution is made. This solution is given to cattle. This dosage are given 4 times a day at an interval of 2 hr and it is continued for 2-3 days. Keywords: kothamara, afara, scuttle Shri Ranchandra Singh, S/o Shri Lekhraj Singh, village Nawada (Ban), dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Sita Ram, S/o Shri Budhsen, Gotia (Larpur), Sainthal, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University. Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh. Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No.