 In India, the Director General of Foreign Trade, New Delhi, permits the export of organic produce provided that these are produced, processed and packed under a valid organic certificate issued by a certification agency accredited by an accreditation agency designated by the Government of India. The Government of India has recognized Tamil Nadu Organic Certification Department, Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), Spice Board, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Coffee Board and Tea Board for the purpose. However, lack of knowledge, rationale capital and access to certification discourage small holders in developing countries including India. There may be a deficit in net income under organic farming compared to conventional one up to third year. As input cost declines, the net income increases progressively fourth year onward. However, the initial three year deficit coupled with certification associated constraints often make small holders apprehensive. Opportunities A substantial amount of CO2 comes from soil through decomposition, mineralization and soil respiration. Conventional agricultural practices that most often accelerate these processes can substantially influence atmospheric C balance on global scale. The mechanism and potential of C- sequestration in converted ecosystems are still not well understood and probably for this reason, predictions made for global carbon balance remain uncertain. The soil C pool reflects a balance between the input and output, and if the carbon flux is low relative to storage it leads to sequestration in soil but a higher flux causes C loss. Soil carbon sequestration holds the greatest global C mitigation potential. Most agricultural soils have lost 30–70% of their antecedent SOC pool. Soil carbon sequestration is cost effective and may contribute to about 89% of total C mitigation. India, representing almost all major climatic zones and wide range of land use systems, has vast opportunities for soil carbon sequestration. Conversion from natural to agricultural ecosystem causes depletion of SOC pool by 60% in soils of temperate regions and over 75% in cultivated soils. Since the soil Indian Farming January 2022 34 C can have a stable and long residence time, even hundreds to thousands of years under many circumstances, the conversion of plant sequestered C to soil organic C could play a crucial role. The major determinants regulating C-flux or storage in soil include climate (especially temperature), soil moisture, microbial biomass and quantity and quality of natural and added organic inputs. Although the major goal of any agricultural practice is to enhance crop yield, recent global attention has focus to link agricultural management strategies with C–sequestration and sustainability of agro-ecosystems. Sequestration of C may be in the form of soil organic carbon (SOC) and soil inorganic carbon (SIC).