 As a child, she was interested in sports, but didn’t pay much attention to boxing. As a young girl from an economically backward Manipuri household, Mary Kom didn’t receive support from her family and society. She kept her interest a secret, as the society discouraged a woman to become a boxer. She faced many struggles as was discriminated throughout her journey. She began boxing in 2000 and was a quick learner who preferred to be put through the same paces as the boys around her. Since boxing was considered unsuitable for woman, Mary Kom never told her parents her interest in boxing. Her father scolded her when a photo of her winning the state boxing championship came in the newspaper. The family was concerned about injuries and about the finances involved. However, this did not stop her from following her dreams and pursuing a career in boxing. In the year 2005, she got married and she took a break from boxing. After a long gap comeback is Mrs M.C. Mary Kom is an Indian boxer, politician and former Member of Parliament, Rajya Sabha. She is the only woman to win the World Boxing Championship six times; the only female boxer to have won a medal in each one of the first seven World Championships; and the only boxer (male or female) to win eight World Championship medals. 212 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series difficult; it was difficult for her but her husband and in laws supported her. She started practicing again after having two children. This was not easy for her. Her perseverance and willpower helped her and she became unstoppable. Today, she stands as the only Indian woman boxer to win a medal in the Olympics. She also became the first Indian woman boxer to get a Gold Medal in the Asian Games in 2014 in South Korea. In a country where women are still working towards achieving independence and basic rights, Mary Kom made us understand what a woman can truly accomplish. She pursued her dreams and laid a foundation for many people to take up different routes to achieve success. She has proved that hard work and determination pays well. Her victory and success is a result of her continual efforts and aspirations. Mary Kom is among the few successful people who pushed all boundaries and made it big. In spite of her success and popularity, Mary Kom’s journey continues to be challenging. She has started the Mary Kom Regional Boxing Academy with a thought that she has gained so much and now it’s her turn to give back to the nation. M.C. Mary Kom is a near-perfect example of an athlete keeping one’s feet firmly planted on the ground. The struggles, hardships she has endured over the years hailing from an economically- disadvantaged family in the North-eastern state of Manipur steeled her so much so that she has learnt to handle ‘success’ with poise and nonchalance. ”In a sportsperson’s life, pressure is always there; you have to learn to deal with it.