 Additionally, it facilitates poor people’s access to a ready supply of meat and milk, providing them with a reliable source of animal proteins. Accomplishing gender equality through dairying The gender gap in food and nutrition security is expanding. Dairy farming is an important tool for achieving socioeconomic change and sustainable rural development among the poor. The nutritional benefits of milk and milk products for women have been extensively discussed and proven. Women who consumed more than one serving of plain milk per day were less likely to be obese. Studies report that women’s income is spent on their family’s nutrition. Dairying has an undeniable potential to improve women’s access to resources, a healthy diet, and health habits because it is a reliable source of income and has a greater participation rate of women. Women are important actors in smallholder farmer milk production in emerging economies. Dairying has the ability to improve food security and provide women more economic power. Therefore, there is a need to strengthen the acceptance of and encouragement for women’s roles as livestock owners, processors, etc. Role of G20 summit in improving dairy sector The G20 Summit, which brings together leaders of the world’s largest economies, addresses global issues like economic growth, trade and sustainability. The G20 countries are home to some of the world’s top dairy producers and consumers, and they can help meet the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), particularly SDG 2, which aims to end hunger, achieve food security and improve nutrition. In developing nations with insufficient food safety systems, dairy- related foodborne diseases constitute a major public health issue. To assure dairy product safety and quality, Indian Farming 60 June 2023 the G20 countries can improve food safety standards and promote excellent manufacturing practices. They can encourage animal health programmes and increase veterinarian services to prevent and control animal diseases. Transfer of technology and training of skills by G20 nations will enable sustainable dairy expansion and capacity building. The G20 can promote fair, transparent trade policies and remove trade barriers to help dairy farmers increase their markets and profits. SUMMARY Dairy sector is an important contributor to sustainability, livelihood security, and nutritional security, particularly in the context of the G20 countries. The G20 Summit provides an opportunity for the Impact pathways through which livestock can affect nutrition Source: Dominguez-Salas et al. (2019) world’s largest economies to work together to address the challenges facing the dairy sector and promote sustainable dairy development.