 This mixture of feed is found to be very effective for quick weight gain in chicks. 3. Prevention of aflatoxin infection: If the feeds get contaminaed with aflatoxin fungus, this ITK is used. A powder from dried roots of nannari (Hemidesmis indicus), vannam avuri (Indigofera tinctoria), leaves of veliparuthi (Pergularia daemia), seeds of moringa (Moringa oleifera) and garlic (Allium sativum) is prepared. A small quantity of this powder is mixed with the normal fodder and given to the chickens to prevent the harmful effects due to intake of aflatoxin. Keywords: veliparuthi, kuppaimeni, velvelam, omelette, adathoda, poduthalai, nannari, vannam avuri, aflatoxin In this practice bird is restrained by leg and then dipped in water for a second and set free. This process is repeated 5- 10 times per day up to 2-3 days. This practice increases the egg-production efficiency and 46% of the rural poultry farmers of Davangare and Shimoga districts of Karnataka follow it. Keywords: dip in water, egg production Pure ash is applied by restraining the birds, starting from head followed by neck, breast, body, wings and finally tail. After application the birds are confined for 30-60 min. to avoid wiping off of ash, and afterwards they are set free. About 30-50% of the farmers of Devinagari and Hamirpur districts of Karnataka believe that this practice hastens the laying process. Keywords: ash, moulting, laying Dr G. R. K Sharma, Assistant Professor, Department of Veterinary Extension, College of Veterinary Science, ANGR Agricultural University, Tirupati (Andhra Pradesh) 517 502 Dr G. R. K Sharma, Assistant Professor, Department of Veterinary Extension, College of Veterinary Science, ANGR Agricultural University, Tirupati (Andhra Pradesh) 517 502 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3465 Quarantine of birds to dark locations to undergo moulting process 3466 Application of mud to shorten the moulting process 3467 Fixing of feathers on beak of birds to accelerate the moulting process This traditional practice involves isolation of birds in darker places (mini-huts prepared with mud and paddy straw) for 3-4 weeks, and then setting them free. Separate care must be taken to check predators. This is the simplest practice and is most effective for increased egg production. About 20-40% of the backyard poultry farmers of district Madhya in Karnataka and Kanmur district in Kerala are following this practice. Keywords: quarantine, moulting, dark place, mini-hut This practice involves the restraining of birds and applying thick mud all over the body. Then they are sheltered in a cooler place for 30-60 min., so that the applied mud gets dried, and then the birds are left free. Albeit of complex procedure it quickes the moulting process and in turn increases the production.