) in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh; (iii) guchhi mushroom habitats; (iv) local vernacular names of Morchella spp; (v) ethnic uses of Morchella  ETHNIC FOOD as food for traditional recipes and as well as modern recipes. (vi) ethnic use of Morchella in medicine; (vii) marketing of Morchella sp.; and (viii) myths associated with Morchella mushroom occurrence and its collection. Experiment Experimental studies were carried on the following aspects: (i) studies on the characteristics and behaviourof Morchellasp. in culture,and (ii) analysis of the nutritionally important components in Morchella sp. Cultural study The studies on cultural characteristics are important for understanding the nutritional behaviour of the fungus. This aspect is also essential for venturing into cultivation. Hence cultural characteristics of Morchella sp. were studied by isolations and multiplication of the mycelium on different media. The methodology followed for cultural studies is as follows: The cultures were raised from tissues, that are actively dividing. For this, the tissues utilized were from pileus and stipular region. The tissue was taken from fruiting bodies, which were sun- dried or dried at temperatures ranging from 30° to 40°C so as not to kill the m. The bits of the tissue (2–3 mm) were taken by sterilized forceps and dipped in 0.1% mercuric chloride solution for 5–10 seconds. These bits were then transferred to solid and liquid media, kept in slants or petri- plates as per the requirements, aseptically with the help of sterilized inoculating needles. In the present study 14 solid and four liquid media were evaluated to determine the most suitable media for optimum mycelial growth. These medium were then incubated at 22 ± 1°C for 6–10 days in a BOD incubator. The growth was periodically observed. The best medium was selected on the basis of growth in relation to time period. Nutritive analysis The fruiting bodies collected during the fruiting season were chemically analysed for Table 1. Localities visited and associated vegetation Locality Altitude (m) Vegetation Rekong Peo 2,290 Pinus gerardiana,Quercus dilatata, Picea smithiana, Cedrus deodara Kalpa 2,769 Pinus gerardiana,Quercus dilatata, Picea smithiana, Cedrus deodara Roghi 2,900 Pinus gerardiana,Quercus dilatata, Picea smithiana, Cedrus deodara Nichar 2,200 Pinus gerardiana,Quercus dilatata, Picea smithiana, Cedrus deodara Sangla 2,680 Broad-leaved trees,Taxus spp.