 They are fed on zooplankton and meshed insects and their lavae. Survival is generally poor, 10-20% at fry stage. ŠŠ The species has been successfully bred in Odisha and Uttar Pradesh. Compiled by: Dr Sudhir Raizada More information: Director, ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources, Lucknow, U.P. Email: director.nbfgr@icar.gov.in 27 Compiled by: Dr P.P. Chakrabarti and Shri Arabinda Das More information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneswar, Odisha Email: director.cifa@icar.gov.in Long Whiskers Catfish Mystus gulio (Hamilton, 1822) ŠŠ Long whiskers catfish is euryhaline in nature and thrive well both in fresh and brackish water. Distributed in Pakistan, eastern parts of India, Indonesia and Vietnam. ŠŠ Captive breeding is undertaken by raising broodstock in earthen ponds at stocking density of 3-4 nos/m2, fed with boiled chicken offals/ fish waste/formulated feed. ŠŠ Spawn during June-August.Fully ripe females weighing above 80g with bulging abdomen and round genital papilla are selected for induced breeding. Mature males weighing above 50g are selected on the basis of pointed red genital papilla. ŠŠ Brooders are given single injection of Ovatide/Wova-FH@1.5-2.0 ml/kg body weight to females and @1.0-1.5 ml/kg to males for spawning. ŠŠ Sex-ratio of 1:1 are kept for breeding in rectangular FRP tanks with about 300 l water for one pair, provided with macrophytes and maintained with continuous mild aeration. Larger tanks may be used for mass-scale breeding. ŠŠ Spawning occurs after about 5-10 h post-injection, either in single batch or sometimes in multiple batches. Eggs are adhesive and attached to the aquatic macrophyte or walls or bottom of the tank. ŠŠ Eggs are allowed to hatch in the same tank, which takes 18-22 hrs at 27-29°C. Newly-hatched larvae are 3.1-3.6 mm in length with a small yolk-sac attached, which is consumed within 48 h of hatching. ŠŠ Larvae are reared in indoor tanks at stocking density of 2000-2500 nos/m2and fed with cladocerans, copepods and live tubifex till 10-12 days and then gradually weaned to nursery feed till they attain fry stage. ŠŠ Depth of water in the larval tanks is kept 8-10 cm initially and increased to 20 cm with increase in larval size. With good water quality management, a survival of 40-50% is achieved. ŠŠ The breeding technology is being propagated in the states of West Bengal and Odisha. 28 Gangetic Mystus Mystus cavasius (Hamilton, 1822) ŠŠ Popular small-size catfish of high value in parts of eastern India. Widely distributed in Indian sub-continent and some South Asian nations. ŠŠ Breeds in running water during monsoon. Brooders are reared in earthen ponds which attain maturity in one year. ŠŠ Mature brood are identified with presence of long genital papilla in males, whereas females have slightly bulged abdomen.