 The plant has been clinically tested and found useful in the treatment of habitual abortion in woman. Much branched, twining shrub found in sub-Himalaya tracts of Punjab and Uttar Pradesh and through out the Deccan Peninsula up to an altitude of 900 m, particularly in hedges. 174 Leptadenia, pyrotechmica - H- Khip P-Kip The plants yields fibre used for rope making . It is reported to be also suitable for paper manufacture.The tuberous root is consumed as vegetable. A much branched often leafless shrub, up to 1.8 m high, found chiefly in dry and sandy places in Punjab, western Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Northern parts of Bombay along the sea coast. 175 Leucas aspera - H- Chota B-Halkusa Tel-Tummi T-thumbai Kan-Thumbegide Mal-Thumba O-Bhutamari The plant is fragrant and used as a pot herb. It is commonly used in anti-pyretic. The leaves juice is used as an external application for psoriasis, chronic sheme eruptions and painful swelling. In north Bengal, flowers are given with honey for cough and colds in children. Herbacious much branched erect or diffuse annual 30–60 cm high found more or less through out India as weed in cultivated fields, waste lands and road sides. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 358 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 176 Leucas cephalotes - H- Dhurpi sag B-Baraha-lkusa M-Shetvad G-Kubu Tel-Peddatumni P-Chatra The plant in pungent to taste. The seeds yield and oil used for illumination purposes. It is considered stimulent, diaphoretic, laxative, anthelmintic, antiseptic.Syrup of the flowers used as domestic remedy for cough and colds. An erect scaberulous or pubescent, stout annual 30– 100 cm high found as common weed in cultivated grounds and waste lands through out the greater parts of India, ascending up to 1,800 m in the Himalayas. Its flowers are small white. 177 Leucas lanata - - Tender shoots of the plant are used as vegetable. They are given for cough after frying. It is an erect perennial herb found in western Himalayas from Kashmir and Kumaon at altitude of 900–2,400 m. It is also found in upper gangetic plain, Nepal, Chhota-Nagpur, Darjeeling, Assam, Konkan and south India. 178 Leucas linifolia - H- Guma B- Halkasa M-Kuva G- Thinanpannikub Tel-Pulatumni Mal-Thunba O-Gaisa The plant has a strong flavour and is reported to be used as a seasining. Decoction or crushed leaves is used as sedative in nervous disorder. It is also used as vermifuge and stomachic. Poultice of fresh leaves is applied to old sore and wounds. Crushed leaves are used externally for dermatosis. Roots, stems are cyano-genetic. Herbacious erect, sylender annual, 30–60 feet high found as weed in fields, pastures and waste lands throughout the country.