 Under normal conditions, the produced royal jelly is directly consumed by new born larvae and adult queen bee. Technology of commercial royal jelly production is similar to mass rearing of queen bee. Harvested royal jelly can be easily stored in household under deep freezer. Freeze dried form obtained by evaporating the water content from royal jelly is in powdery form and it retains the characteristics of the product, but this should be stored in air-tight containers. Market demand of royal jelly is increasing day by day, as people are becoming more aware towards health benefits due to its nutritional and medicinal importance. Hence, Indian beekeeper has large market for royal jelly. A new entrepreneur or small beekeeper may also start royal jelly production with minimum investment. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: sudeepak.jha@gmail.com Queen rearing by grafting method Source: https://www.dadant.com/learn/queen-rearing-methods-and-equipment/ FEW FACTs All manufacturers claim their own cooking oil is the best! Canola oil, olive oil, sunflower oil, butter, margarine, and virgin coconut oil all have their supporters. But the fact is that all liquid oils are about the same. They all provide about 120 calories per tablespoon. Unless you drink your cooking oil, or deep-fry every day, your choice of cooking oil doesn’t make a huge difference. It’s good that we pay attention to our oil. But the fact is, the major source of oil in our diets isn’t home cooking – it’s packaged foods and fast-food meals! If we’re concerned about GMO (Genetically Modified Cooking Oils), it’s likely that corn, soy, and canola oils are genetically-modified. There’re non-GMO, organic kinds of these oils available. So check the label. Choose sunflower oil or canola oil if you wish to fry foods, as these oils have a higher smoke point. It is best not to fry with extra-virgin olive oil, as its smoke point is only about 190°C/375°F. Indian Farming 21 April 2023 Precision irrigation management: An innovative technique for efficient water management Sandeep Kumar Verma* and Aparna Verma Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel University of Agriculture and Technology, Meerut, Uttar Pradesh 250 110 Irrigation is the artificial application of watering the crops for their survival, growth and development. The need of irrigation for crop production is increasing due to rise in drought indices and quick population growth. Yet, there are a number of problems that irrigated agriculture needs to grapple with, which have led to subpar performance, wasteful water use and low water output. In order to make up for the short-comings of rainfall, freshwater is necessary for irrigation and the supply of nutrients for plant growth. Over 70% of the fresh water resources are used for agricultural purposes. The traditional approach of managing irrigation has issues including low water use efficiency and low production.