 The results of the trials showed that the yield targets of 12 and 18 q/ha were achieved through balanced fertilization based on fertilizer prescription equations. COIMBTORE Demonstrations were conducted during Kharif and Rabi in wetlands of TNAU Farm, Coimbatore. The yield data indicated that higher rice grain yields were recorded in STCR treatments when compared to blanket dose. The STCR‐ IPNS treatments recorded relatively higher yields per cent achievement and response ratio over STCR‐fertilizers alone. JABALPUR Paddy, wheat and chickpea Four frontline demonstrations (one on paddy, two on wheat and one on chickpea) were conducted on the farmers’ fields during Kharif and Rabi. The data revealed that the profits in all the crops were higher at the targeted yield levels as compared to the profit attained by using general recommended doses. Profits were further enhanced due to inclusion of farm yard manure @ 5 t/ha. Paddy provided high profits with the inclusion of 5t FYM/ha as compared to the target and GAD. Amongst the two wheat varieties tested, Lok 1 with fixed target level of 5 tlha gave the maximum profit of As 16426/ha as compared to GW 190 which with 4 t/ha target level gave a profit of Rs 10565/ha. Benefit cost ratios, both in case of Lok 1 (5.34 to 5.63) and GW 190 (4.34 to 4.88) were higher as compared to BCR of GRD. Yard stick values were also high at the fixed target levels either with or without inclusion of FYM when compared with the YSV of GAD. High profit in case of chickpea was recorded (Asi 6439/‐ with the use of 5 1 FYM, of As 13189/‐ with no FYM. High benefit cost ratios and YSV were also noticed at target levels fixed with either or no inclusion of FYM. RAIPUR Rice, soybean and pigeon pea, wheat and gram The demonstrations were carried out on farmers’ fields with rice, soybean and pigeon pea. The yield targets were achieved within 10% deviation. The results indicated that high economic returns together with higher yield can be achieved with soil test based fertilizer use as compared to general recommendations. The importance of soil test was highlighted in case of pigeon pea, where all the P & K fertilizers could be saved in view of their high soil nutrient status without reduction in yield levels. www.icar.org.in 9 2002‐2007 Work accomplished by some cooperating centres of AICRP on STCR during the period under report for transfer of technology (2004‐05) www.icar.org.in 10 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management www.icar.org.in 11 2002‐2007 Work accomplished by some cooperating centres of AICRP on STCR during the period under report for transfer of technology (2005‐06) www.icar.org.in 12 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management www.icar.org.