 Way forward Potato The locally quality seed production in Odisha, Karnataka and Maharashtra will reduce seed cost imported from about 2000 Km from the north. The farmers will be benefitted by reduced cost of seed and increased production of quality potato. The introduction of potato in non-traditional potato growing areas in cereal based system in hot-humid agro-ecology of North West Bengal and in Arid ecology of Rajasthan will generate more income to farmers and improve food security by increased productivity of systems. The process of developing heat and drought tolerant varieties will continue to meet the challenges for climate change scenario for sustaining productivity and quality potato production. Sweet potato The projects will highlight introduction of nutritionally rich sweet potato varieties and expansion of sweet potato cultivation to increase and sustain its production in Odisha and in Indian states in general. The seed system has to be strengthened for sustainable production. The projects should be farmer led, supported with good technological interventions. The researchers and extension will play an important role in guiding and providing available technical options to farmers and helping them to make their appropriate choices. Scientists will also provide technical backstopping needed for further on- station and on-farm research. CIP research integration sites in India ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 77 The International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) is a nonprofit autonomous international research and training organization with a mission to reduce poverty and hunger, improve the health of rice farmers and consumers, and ensure environmental sustainability through collaborative research, partnerships, and the strengthening of national agricultural research and extension systems (NARES). IRRI is a member of the CGIAR Consortium and works in partnership with public- and private-sector partners in the NARES in major rice-growing countries to do research, training, and knowledge transfer. IRRI is the lead center of the Global Rice Science Partnerships and RiceAgri-Food System Research Program RICE - CGIAR Research Programs (CRP). Over more than five and half decades of operation, IRRI has amassed a unique portfolio of research products and intellectual assets on all aspects of rice systems, which remain as public goods. IRRI and India have been successfully collaborating for almost five decades. Formal collaboration between India and IRRI dates back to 1967, when the ICAR and IRRI agreed on research cooperation. On 15 March 1974, Dr. M.S. Swaminathan and N.C. Brady, the then director generals of ICAR and IRRI, respectively, signed the ICAR-IRRI Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) for cooperation in research and training. Under this umbrella the two institutions sign work plans every 4-5 years, reviewing the progress of research and identifying future opportunities and areas of research collaboration.