 Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2618 Use of kahnour flour to cure leach problem in cattle When cattle drink water in the open pond, talabs etc. leaches enter into their noses. Due to this, cattle become weak day by day, salivation persists and they show weakness. Flour of kahnour (Aeuilus indica) is blown in the nose of cattle with the help of a pipe. Leaches come out automatically. This method is Shri Chandu Lal Sharma Khamala, Kotkhai, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 201  practised in Kotkhai area in Theong tehsil of Shimla district. Keywords: kahnour, leach talab, open pond 2623 Use of potash to cure leaches problem in cattle When cattle drink water from the open pond, talabs etc. leaches enter into their nostrils. Cattle become weak day by day and salivation persist. For taking out leaches from the nostrils of animals, small quantity of potash is taken and blown in the nose. Leach dies and comes out. This method is followed in Theong tehsil of Shimla district of Himachal Pradesh. Keywords: leaches problem, open pond, nostril, potash Shri Deep Ram Verma Jagheri, Theog, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 201 2572 Use of germinated wheat seeds to bring cows and buffaloes to heat Due to little disorders some cows and buffaloes do no come to natural heat period. To overcome this, farmers feed the germinated seeds of wheat to bring the animal to heat. About 2- 3 kg seeds of wheat are taken and moistened for 3-4 days to initiate germination. The germinated seeds are given to the needy animals. This is practised for 2-3 days to bring the animals in heat period. This is an age-old practice. It is used in Sonapur village of Azamgarh district of Uttar Pradesh. About 80-90 % of the problem can be controlled. Keywords: germinated wheat seeds, heat period Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 2509 Use of brinjal (Solanum melongena) for induction of heat in heifers The farmers of Kaliyankadu village are using brinjals to bring heifers in heat for more than 40 years. About 1 kg brinjal is fed to heifers for 7 days for induction of heat. Keywords: brinjal, heifers, heat induction Shri P. Prasath Aswathi Sun Street, Kaliyankadu, P.O Chungankaddi Kanniyakumari (Tamil Nadu) 2542 Use of aanai nerunchi (Pedalium murex) leaves to bring animals to heat Farmers of Kuzhuman in Tamil Nadu have been using leaves of aanai nerunchi to bring animals to heat since 40 years. It is given thrice a day for 3 days in handful quantity. Keywords: aanai nerunchi, animal in heat Shri Periyaswamy Mela kuzhumani, P.O.