 carinatus and G. tristis having fragrant flowers (EC 1099555-59/South Africa). Besides this, 43 samples of fruit crops were exported to Uzbekistan [Apple (11), Pear (4), Plum (5), Peach (6), Apricot (6), Almond (4), Walnut (3) and Sweet cherry (4)] under collaborative research project. PGR Policy: Ninth Governing Body (GB9) of the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture (ITPGRFA) was organized and hosted by India from 19-24 September, 2022 at New Delhi. Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Hon’ble Minister of Agriculture, Government of India, inaugurated the 9th Session of Governing Body of the ITPGRFA and addressed the delegates. More than 400 delegates from nearly 150 member-countries assembled during the six- day long GB9. taxonomic delineation was done in Vigna stipulacea for 44 descriptors and genus Lathyrus for 26 descriptors. Two varieties, one each, of quinoa (Him Shakti) and buckwheat (Him Phaphra) were developed. Plant quarantine: A total of 1,33,673 imported samples were processed for quarantine clearance. The 2,526 samples were found infested/infected with different pests. Of which, 326 samples were rejected due to fungal pathogens of quarantine importance. Important interceptions included– fungi (Peronospora manshurica and Tilletia barclayana); insects (Bruchus dentipus, Callosobruchus rhodesienus and C. subinnotatus), nematodes (Aphenechoides besseyi, Pratylenchus penetrans, Meloidogyne spp.). Four viruses were intercepted which have not been reported from India. Five noxious weeds (Avena sterilis, Bromus secalinus, Echinochloa crus- pavonis, Ipomoea plebeia, Polygonum lapathifolium) were intercepted not reported so far from India. A total number of 3,287 samples of paddy were given mandatory hot water treatment. A total of 2,326 vegetative propagules were also given prophylactic Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Hon’ble Minister of Agriculture, Government of India inaugurating GB9 of ITPGRFA, in the presence of Shri Manoj Ahuja, Secretary, Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, GoI. Dr Himanshu Pathak, Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR; Ms Yasmina El-Bahloul, Chairperson of GB9 Bureau and Mr Kent Nnadozie, Secretary, ITPGRFA. Indian delegation led the deliberation on various agenda items and GB9 re-establishes an “Ad Hoc Open- ended Working Group to Enhance the Functioning of the MLS”. India was elected as the Co-Chair and will lead the process along with Australia. India (as a member of contact group to finalize resolution) pushed for focus on communities, farmer-conservers and women as “Guardians of Crop Diversity” to recognize their role in conservation and continued availability of crop diversity and GB9 adopted the resolution. Text of the treaty was also translated in hindi. Germplasm characterization/evaluation: A total of 17,079 accessions of different crop plants were characterized during the reporting period for various traits. Mega characterization of chickpea germplasm (5,084 acc.