 Mushroom cultivation fits in very well with conversion of crop residue into valuable food protein and is considered as potential source of income, alternative food production, provision of employment as well as for recycling of agricultural wastes. Hypsizygus ulmarius (Blue oyster mushroom) is a novel species with large fruiting body, blue coloured pinheads and high yield. This mushroom also has attractive shape and is fleshy with excellent taste. The cultivation technology of this novel species is very simple and also has very low spore content as compared to other cultivated oyster mushrooms. Due to its simple technology of cultivation, this mushroom may be proved as mushroom of the future, a cheap and perfect food in the coming years. Further, its spore content is very low hence does not cause respiratory allergy problem as the presently grown oyster species. Nutritionally, this mushroom contains 23.2% crude protein, 56.1% carbohydrates, 1.9% starch and 9.1% fibre on dry weight basis. It is highly recommended for stomach and intestinal diseases. Cultivation technology of the mushroom (Hypsizygus ulmarius) was standardized in the sub-tropical zone of Himachal Pradesh. Production system Blue oyster mushroom can be grown by small and marginal farmers because of its simplicity of growing on Mushrooms: A total of three strains, two in Button and one in Milky mushroom were released. DMR-button-14 and DMR-button-59 giving average yields of 23–25 kg and 22–24 kg/100 kg compost. The two strains gave 15% and 9% yield increase over control. DMR Milky-985 has spherical pileus and long stipe, and higher average fruit body weight (47 g). The higher biological efficiency (55.7%) and 5.6% yield increase was observed in DMR Milky-985 as compared to control (52.6% BE). Source: ICAR Annual Report (2020) Indian Horticulture 16 Preparation of Spawn Step 4. Sterlization of grain substrates in autoclave Step 7. Commercial Spawn Step 5. UV Sterilization and Inoculation with fungus Step 8. Spawning Step 6. Master spawn Step 9. Colonisation Step by step growing guide of Blue Oyster Mushroom Step 1. Substrate preparation (Chopping of substrate in 2-4 cm) Step 2. Wetting and sterilization of substrates Step 3. Rinsing and draining of excess water Step 10. Pinning Step 11. Fruiting November–December 2021 17 variety of substrates viz., Soyabean, wheat, paddy, maize stalk, pigeon pea, sesamum, bajra, sugarcane bagasse, mustard straw’s, paper waste, cardboard, saw dust and other agro-wastes successfully. At first the straw is chopped into small pieces (2-4 cm long) and thereafter soaked in water so that the straw attains 75-90% moisture level and then treated with the solution of formalin (0.5 %) and carbendazim (0.075 %). After 18 h, the straw is taken out and the excess water in the substrate is drained off by placing the substrates on clean wire mesh.