 Paecilmyces lilacinus grown on sorghum grain and formulated in talc effectively reduced root-knot nematodes in chrysanthemum at 4-6 kg/acre along with neem- cake at 150-200 kg and enhanced flower yield between 18 and 24%. In Bangalore, Trichogrammatoidea bactrae at 2.5 lakh adults per hectare against P. xylostella on cabbage (5 releases at weekly intervals) in comparison with Endosulfan 3 sprays at weekly intervals resulted in reduction in larval population and increase in yield. The ICBR realized due to this treatment at Pune (Maharashtra) was 1 : 55 : 64. Among Bt formulations tested, Biobit proved effective in checking on diamond back moth with least mean number of larvae (1,700), followed by Dipel (21.93). Five sprays of Delfin WG at 1kg/ha were best with least fruit infestation (8.93%) and maximum yield (13.65 tonnes/ha). Imidacloprid, Cypermethrin, pongamia oil, neem seed kernel, Chlorothalonil, mancozeb and copper oxychloride were found safe to serpentine leafminer parasitoid Hemiptarsenus varicornis, Monocrotophos was moderately toxic, up to 21 days ‘BIO RICE’ AND PDBC INFOBASE AS READY RECKONERS The CD version of the expert system ‘BIORICE”, is now available. In development of a National Information System on Biological Suppression of Crop Pests, a CD version of the software “PDBC INFOBASE” has been developed with fine illustrations and pictures. An expert system for controlling pests of oilseeds and pulses is under preparation for which keys for identification of the major pests along with their damage symptoms are in progress. A knowledge base system for Helicoverpa armigera and its natural enemies is being developed by creating a database in MS-Access on biology of pest, its host plants, distribution and natural enemies. CROP IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 45 after spray and Phosphamidon least toxic up to 14 days after treatment and then it is safe. Releases of Copidosoma koehleri at 50,000 mummies/ha in 4 equal doses at weekly interval in perforated plastic vials hung 5-m apart in field 45 days after planting has been the best method. This recorded least damages by Phthorimaea operculella and yielded maximum tuber in Pune. Release of C. koehleri at 1 mummy/4 kg tubers in country-stores recorded minimum tuber infestation (11.36%) after one month of storage and it was similar to release of C. blackburni at 2 pupae/kg tubers. PESTICIDE RESIDUES Out of 712 vegetable samples, 61% were contaminated with pesticide residues, and out of which 11% exceeded maximum residual limit (MRL) value. In 378 fruit samples, 53% were contaminated with pesticide residues. In milk, out of 537 samples, 52% were contaminated with DDT and 94% with HCH. However, only 14% samples exceeded the MRL in DDT and 18% in HCH. Residues of Endosulfan were detected in 9% samples of milk and 5% exceeded MRL value.