 Study setting The Keonjhar district has an estimated population of 1.8 million residents,86% of whom reside in a rural setting (21). Of this population, 44% belonged to the Scheduled Tribes and 12% to Scheduled Castes (21)—historically the most disadvantaged socioeconomic groups in India. The prevalence of maternal and child undernutrition in Keonjhar is among the highest in India. In Keonjhar during 2015–2016, 30% of women (age 15–49 y) were underweight and 40% were anemic (13), and of children aged <5 y, >40% were stunted and 19% were wasted (13). 2256 Haghparast-Bidgoli et al. FIGURE 1 Overview of components delivered across UPAVAN interventions and control arms, adapted with permission from Kadiyala et al. (2018) (19). AGRI, Nutrition-sensitive agriculture intervention; AGRI-NUT, Nutrition-sensitive and nutrition-specific agriculture intervention; AGRI-NUT + PLA, Nutrition-sensitive and nutrition-specific agriculture intervention using the Participatory Learning and Action approach; PLA, Participatory Learning and Action; UPAVAN, Upscaling Participatory Action and Videos for Agriculture and Nutrition. UPAVAN interventions Interventions were implemented by the Voluntary Association for Rural Reconstruction and Appropriate Technology (VARRAT), a nongovernmental organization in Odisha, with technical support from Digital Green, Ekjut, John Snow Inc. Research and Training Institute (JSI RTI), London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine (LSHTM), and University College London (UCL). The trial was evaluated by LSHTM, UCL, and DCOR Consulting Pvt. Ltd. The 3 UPAVAN interventions have been described in detail elsewhere (19, 20) and are briefly described here, with an overview in Figure 1. Each intervention included 2 main components: a fortnightly women’s group meeting (the content of which varied between interventions) and a follow-up home visit to each group member after each meeting. The interventions worked with women’s self-help groups (SHGs)— an existing platform involved in savings and credit activities. The interventions were implemented for 32 mo, from March 2017 to October 2019. Nutrition-sensitive agriculture intervention (AGRI) . In this arm, fortnightly women’s groups viewed and discussed NSA videos, following a participatory video approach designed by Digital Green (22). The participatory video approach had 4 steps: 1) local implementers identified relevant NSA practices to include in videos, 2) local videographers filmed farmers and other community members demonstrating or discussing the practices, 3) local facilitators screened the videos in group meetings and facilitated discussions, and 4) facilitators conducted follow-up home visits to pregnant women and mothers of children aged 0–23 mo who participated in the group meetings.