 Not only this gives farmers much needed income throughout year but it also reduces the pest load and reduces the need for pesticide which eventually reduces the cost of production How to start mango based poultry farming? Housing in mango orchards: Housing is important for the birds as it protects them from extremities of temperature, rain, wind and predators. Shelters should be constructed in mango orchards in the dimensions of 4×3.5×8 or 12 ft (H×W×L) and can be extended as per the need using mud for wall, polythene sheet for roof and a small door made of wire mesh and waste materials. Suitable poultry strains for mango ecosystem: Four poultry strains viz. CARI-Devendra, Nirbheek, Shyama and Kadaknath, used in mango orchards, CARI-Nirbheek and CARI-Shyama gave maximum eggs (175-185) and egg laying starts from 5th month onwards. CARI Devendra attains body weight of 1.5 kg in 4 months times. CARI Devendra and Shyama strains gain body weight faster and fetches R 300-400 per bird. Kadaknath attains 1.5 kg in 7-8 months but fetches R 800-1000 per bird in the market. Kadaknath was found to be very agile and controls mango pests from upper canopy. Feed for mango orchard based poultry : Strains identified for mango-based poultry farming can scavenge /graze well for its feed in the mango orchard. During the process of grazing in the mango orchard these birds will feed on insects, green weeds, grass seed, etc. Feed supplementation in the form of scratchs usually given in morning/evening. Azolla is also provided to birds as supplemented feed because it contains nearly 24% crude protein (with digestibility around 50%), besides being rich in minerals and vitamins. Depending on the availability of orchard area the requirement of supplemented feed varies 30-45 gm/bird/day. Age of orchard In young plantations, the sunlight availability is more. This makes ideal situation for azolla cultivation but comparatively poor situation for insect population. Use of dung and manure will invite more insects which may be a source for poultry. Therefore, space requirement will vary among new and old plantations. Generally 5-10 m2/bird space is sufficient if supplementary feeding is not done but if azolla is supplemented the space requirement will be drastically reduced. Furthermore, the agro-climate will also influence Rural poultry integration in mango orchard ecosystem for augmenting farmer's income Mango (Mangifera indica L.) is one of the most important commercial crops. Mango orchards are the main source of income for the farmers who raise it. The integration of rural poultry in mango orchard ecosystems can help enhance farmer's income which has been discussed in this article. The article highlights the main details concerned with mango orchard based poultry. Night shelter for poultry Indian Horticulture 28 the space requirement.