 Thulasi: Hindi: kali tulsi, mamri; Sanskrit: ajaka, gambhira, kuthera; Kannada and Tamil: nayi tulasi; Malayalam: kattu tulasi; Telugu: kukka tulasi. Kuppaimeni: Indian acalypha Thulasi: Hoary basil Thumbai: Leucas aspera Spreng. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Active ingredients Geographical indications Kuppaimeni: Acalypha indica Linn. Thulasi: Ocimum canum Sims Thumbai: The plant is fragrant and used as a pot herb. It is commonly used as antipyretic. The juice of leaves is used as an external application for psoriasis, chronic skin eruptions and painful swellings. In north Bengal, flowers are given with honey for cough and colds in children. Kuppaimeni: The herb is said to possess diuretic, carminative, expectorant and emetic properties, but it causes gastro-intestinal irritation. A decoction of the herb is used as a safe and speedy laxative; and also to cure tooth and earache. In Homoeopathy the herb is used as a remedy for severe cough associated with bleeding from the lungs, haemoptysis and incipient phthisis. A paste of the leaves is applied to burns; with lime juice it is useful in early cases of ringworm. Fresh juice of the leaves is applied with oil, salt or lime in rheumatoid arthritis and to cure scabies and other skin affections. The powdered leaves are used for bed-sores and maggot-infested wounds. Alcoholic extracts of the tender shoots, leaves and roots showed activity against Micrococcus pyogenes var. aureus and Escherichia coli. Thulasi: The leaves are used for flavouring sauces, soups and salads. The seeds are considered diuretic and tonic, and are used in the preparation of cooling drinks. A decoction of the plant is taken for coughs and that of leaves for dysentery; it is also used as a mouth wash for relieving toothache. Thumbai: A herbaceous, much-branched, erect or diffuse annual, 30-60 cm high, found more or less throughout India as a weed in cultivated fields, waste lands and road sides. Leaves subsessile, linear or narrowly oblong-lanceolate, entire or crenate; flowers small, white, in dense terminal or axillary whorls; nutlets small, oblong, smooth, brown. Kuppaimeni: An erect, annual herb, 30-100 cm in height, occurring as a weed in gardens, in waste places and along the road-sides throughout the plains of India, ascending the hills in Orissa up to 210 m. Leaves ovate or rhombic- ovate, 2.5-7.5 cm long with slender petioles which may be longer than the blades; spikes slender, erect, up to 7.6 cm, terminal or axillary with male flowers minute, clustered at Contents Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT the top, and female flowers with accrescent, broad, leafy bract; capsules often one-seeded, concealed in the bract; seeds pale- brown, ovoid, acute, smooth. The plant grows as an obnoxious weed.