 National Innovations on Climate Resilient Agriculture: Technology Demonstration Component (TDC) of NICRA (National Innovations in Climate Resilient Agriculture) which aims at enhancing resilience of Indian agriculture and making Indian farmers more adaptive to climatic vulnerabilities has been implemented through 151 Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) in climatically most vulnerable districts of the country as per the latest risk categorization. Climate smart technologies encompassing Natural Resource Management, Crops and Livestock modules have been demonstrated in adopted villages as a package to suit the resource and weather related constraints of different farming system typologies of the village along with institutional interventions like Village Climate Risk Management Committee (VCRMC), Custom Hiring Centers (CHCs), fodder bank and seed bank. Capacity building and extension activities are also a part of TDC NICRA to bring larger awareness on climate resilient technologies and to instill climate literacy among farmers. During the year under report 6,477, 13,931 and 7,187 demonstrations were conducted covering 5,695.81, 6,807.6 and 265.65 ha of area under NRM, Crop and Livestock modules respectively. At the same time 2,038 capacity building programmes and 2,874 extension activities were taken up for the benefit of 27,816 and 2,44,561 farmers respectively for bringing awareness on climate resilient technologies and to enhance climate literacy. Under TDC-NICRA emphasis Initiation of Custom Hiring Center under NICRA in KVK, Tuensang, Nagaland Technology Assessment, Demonstration and Capacity Development icar annual report 2022-23 193 Shri M. Sankara Rao is a marginal farmer, belonging to a remote village of Naiduvalasa of Rambadrapuram Mandal of Vizianagaram district in Andhra Pradesh. He is an ex-trainee of KVK, Vizianagaram. Having gained knowledge and skill in nursery, he established nursery unit with “mini-shade net” under the technical guidance of KVK faculty. He raised seedlings of different vegetables and papaya under mini-shade net (60 sq m) and produced high quality virus-free papaya seedlings (2,500) and vegetables seedlings, viz. Tomato (5,000), Brinjal (5,000), Chilli (5,000) during May 2021 to October 2021, with which, he received a net income of 25,700. Farmers from the neighbouring villages got attracted with the benefits gained by protected shade-net nursery production; and accordingly, approached KVK, Vizianagaram for further guidance to adopt the technology. Dragon fruit is a tropical fruit that has become increasingly popular in recent years. Though people primarily enjoy it for its unique look and taste, evidence suggests its health benefits as well. Dragon fruit is the fruit of a variety of cactus species. It has a unique appearance, sweet taste and crunchy texture. The dragon fruit contains multiple antioxidants, that are beneficial for good health.