 It is an exclusive right which recognizes the value of climate and location in making the produce distinguished on the basis of unique characteristics. It is also an effective tool in the strengthening of traditional knowledge associated with them. The use of GI of the products depicts certain quality or enjoys certain reputation to their geographical area. It is mainly used to identify the manufacturing, handicrafts, food stuff, natural goods and agricultural goods from the peculiar area which has built up goodwill in the market. The geographical indication is generally possessed by community which belongs to particular geographical locality. With all India jurisdictions, GI operates as per Geographical Indication of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act 1999. Geographical indication (GI) of fruit crops Since the enactment of GI Act, 108 agricultural produce have been listed with GI tag till date and among horticultural items have a share of more than 75%. Among horticultural commodities, maximum percentage occupied by the fruit crops (about 43%) which includes Appemidi Mango, Nanjanagudu Banana, Kamalapur Red Banana, Coorg Orange, Devanahalli Pommelo, Bengaluru blue grapes in Karnataka; Banganpalli Mango in Andhra Pradesh; Himsagar, Lakshman Bhog and Fazli Mango in West Bengal; Sirumalai Hill Banana and Virupakshi Hill Raghavendra H R*, Varun Hiremath, Tejukumar B K and Udaya T V Varietal diversity Geographical indications of fruit crops Our country has mega-diversified climate and productive soil for cultivation providing ample of opportunities for the development of fruit industry. But the hardest challenge in present situation is to be produce self-sufficient in production to feed the ever increasing human population. The infusion of technology is needed for deriving higher output per unit area for competition both in domestic and international market. In India, many varieties of different fruit crops are growing under specific climate and in a specific zone of climate. This specific type of climate is responsible for conferring some unique characteristics to that particular variety of fruit crop. In this regard, the concept of geographical indications highlights the facts regarding quality and other parameters of the produce. Among 86 horticultural products, fruits cover 43% maximum share to the total number of GI’s. Twenty nine fruit goods have been registered covering crops like Mango, Banana, Citrus, Guava, Grapes, Pineapple, Pomegranate, Litchi, Strawberry, Jackfruit, Custard apple and Fig.