 In order to make the agricultural universities globally competitive, availability of state-of-the art infrastructure, highly qualified and trained faculty, excellent research, teaching and learning facilities and student amenities, adequate financial support is therefore, a prerequisite, along with evolving appropriate models for strengthening of higher education, addition of newer courses encompassing global initiatives. 10.1. Reforms in quality and academics to attract talent 1. The SAUs need to fare well among world ranked universities. Creation of world class universities will boost the country’s position in global rankings. The country needs to reorient existing institutions into world class universities. 2. Expansion of the distance learning mode of education in agriculture in the NEP-2020 with blended model of curriculum transaction and more weightage to project work and experiential learning will be beneficial for wider reach. Achievements in Agricultural Education in Independent India 329 3. Industry-SAUs linkages, public-private partnership and other such models needs to be promoted for adequate resource mobilization from alternate sources so as to make the higher agri education institutions self-sustaining institutions. 4. ICAR-SAU system should set up a mechanism for periodically assessing the absorption capacity of agriculture graduates and specialized post graduates in the various industries in India. 5. The farming has been integrated over centuries so is the needs of the farmers as on date. Hence, the process of fragmentation to open segmented SAUs should be reversed and the multi-faculty nature and strength of SAUs should be restored. 6. To attract students to agriculture and allied streams, focus on developing professional opportunities in production, processing, marketing and supply of agricultural products, besides generating new employment opportunities. 7. In order to strengthen degree programmes in the emerging and frontier areas of science and technology, more fellowships need to be earmarked. Separate provision of special research grants should be extended for innovative PG research. 8. Establishing ‘Technology Parks’ and agri-business hubs, agribusiness innovation centres would serve as innovation platforms, and also encourage rural graduates, entrepreneurs and young professionals to start businesses and bring technological and managerial expertise to rural areas. 9. Institutionalize skill development, entrepreneurship and experiential learning programmes, and invest on non-formal education and vocational training in agricultural technologies. 10. Introducing innovations, introduction of upcoming and relevant areas in course cur- riculum, initiating new courses in education should be a regular practice 11. Disciplines of social sciences like economics, agri-business management, marketing and rural sociology, and agricultural ethics and policies need to be emphasized for promoting market-driven agriculture. 12.