 For other SAUs, avenues are already available under AICRP and other network projects. Agenda 5.12: Network project to cope up the impact of climate change on agriculture in each agro-climate zone CCSHAU, Hisar mentioned that the impact of climate change will be different in different agro climatic zones of the country. There is need to initiate an AICRP on climate change to develop climate resilient technologies. [Action: DDG (NRM)] Agenda 5.13: AICRP on Pollution Abatement of National Resources CCSHAU, Hisar presented that the contamination of underground waters and soils by pollutant ions, heavy metals and other agricultural chemicals has been observed sporadically. Since such problems of soil and water contamination are not confined to a specific area, there is a need to have such centers/labs for each state with a team of multi-disciplinary scientists. The point was noted. (Action: SMDs) 11 Agenda 5.14: Provision of Short-Term Research Projects CCSHAU, Hisar mentioned that the funding for need-based short projects was earlier available under AP Cess Fund, which has now ceased. There is an urgent need to make a provision for funding the need-based location specific research projects of SAUs. The point was noted. (Action: SMDs) Agenda 5.15: Addressable priority issues for enhanced animal productivity—a step towards attaining 4% national agricultural growth target during XI Plan CCSHAU, Hisar presented the agenda. The subsistence oriented mixed farming systems will continue to be the backbone of Indian agriculture and are especially important in terms of area, extent of poverty, integrated natural resource management and opportunities for increased food production. The synergies in crop-livestock systems provide opportunities for generating more income from the resources available. Technological development, liberal budgetary provisions and policy interventions are required and both, in situ as well as ex situ conservation and propagation are priority issues. [Action: DDG (Animal Science)] Agenda 5.16: Establishment of Biological Safety Level (BSL) – 3/4 Laboratories GADVASU, Ludhiana informed that the Biosafety level is required for work with dangerous and exotic agents that pose a high individual risk of aerosol-transmitted laboratory infections, agents which cause severe to fatal disease in livestock and humans for which vaccines or other treatments are not available. There is a serious threat from certain exotic diseases which have the potential to be pandemic in nature. Besides, there are new diseases emerging or recurring at unprecedented rate over the last decade. With the advent of biotechnology the construction of novel toxin biological weapons or genetically engineered diseases with high degree of virulence has been a reality. There is need for creating BSL-3/4 in the north zone at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University to undertake research in emerging and exotic disease and be prepared for eventualities.