 These services integrate meteorological data, and field-based observations to issue advisories that help farmers make informed decisions about sowing, irrigation, fertilizer application, pest management, and harvest timing. By anticipating weather extremes such as droughts, floods, heatwaves, and unseasonal rains, agromet advisories empower farmers to adopt adaptive and resilient farming practices, reducing crop losses and safeguarding livelihoods. Extreme weather events and their impact on dryland agriculture Drought: The immediate consequence of drought is a shortage of water for agriculture and drinking water; resulting in crop failures, negatively affecting individual and community livelihoods as well as negatively impacting the country’s economy. The extent of crop losses due to drought depends upon its type (chronic or contingent), duration, frequency etc. Severe effects due to drought occurred in 1877, 1899, 1901, 1918, 1972, 1987, and 2009 affecting greater than 50% of the country’s geographical area. Heatwaves: Heatwave conditions are generally Indian Farming 75 (01): 68-72; January 2025 experienced from February to June in India. High- pressure systems, late monsoon onset, and climate change-induced temperature rise are some causes of heat waves. Heatwaves during February–March in north India resulted in losses of wheat production estimated at 6 MT in 2002–03 and 4 MT in 2021-22. The direct effect is through the damage to the crop’s reproductive development thus, reduced production potential. Indirectly heatwaves increase the plant water stress, resulting in cessation of photosynthesis and subsequently possibly death. Cold waves: Though less common, cold waves can affect dryland regions in northern India, such as Rajasthan and parts of Gujarat. The damage also extends to northern parts of Maharashtra. Sudden drops in temperature during the winter months can damage crops like wheat and mustard, especially if they are in the flowering or fruiting stages. Cold winds from the Himalayan region descending into the northern plains are the major cause. Frost damage to crops, livestock health issues, and reduced agricultural output are some of the negative effects on Indian agriculture due to cold waves. Hailstorms: In recent years, India experienced widespread hailstorm events from February to May in the northern, central, and southern parts of India. Among the extreme weather events, hailstorm damage Indian Farming 69 January 2025 to crops severely affected within a short time interval. More than 61% of the districts in India experienced at least one hail event in 38 years (1972–2011) with a gap of two other years in between. Cyclones and flash floods: While cyclones are more frequent along India’s coastlines, their impact on dryland regions, particularly in southern and western India (e.g., Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh), can still be profound.