 Review article Climate change and resilience, adaptation, and sustainability of agriculture in India: A bibliometric review Biswaranjan Baraj a, Manoranjan Mishra a, Desul Sudarsan b, Richarde Marques da Silva c,*, Celso Augusto Guimar˜aes Santos d,** a Department of Geography, Fakir Mohan University, Vyasa Vihar, Nuapadhi, Balasore, 756089, Odisha, India b Department of Library and Information Science, Berhampur University, Berhampur, Odisha, 760007, India c Department of Geosciences, Federal University of Paraíba, 58051-900, Jo˜ao Pessoa, Brazil d Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Federal University of Paraíba, 58051-900, Jo˜ao Pessoa, Brazil A R T I C L E I N F O Keywords: Adaptation strategies Bibliometric analysis Climate change impacts Climate-related agricultural productivity Sustainable agriculture Vulnerability of farmers A B S T R A C T Climate change (CC) is a global issue, with effects felt across nations, including India. The in­ fluences of CC, such as rising temperatures, irregular rainfall, and extreme weather events, have a direct impact on agricultural productivity, thereby affecting food security, income, livelihoods, and overall population health. This study aims to identify trends, patterns, and common themes in research on Climate Change and Resilience, Adaptation, and Sustainability of Agriculture in India (CCRASAI). It also seeks to illuminate potential future research directions to guide subsequent research and policy initiatives. The adverse impacts of CC could push farmers into poverty and undernourishment, underscoring the imperative to focus on the resilience, adaptation, and sus­ tainability of agriculture in India. A bibliometric review was conducted using Biblioshiny and VoSviewer software to analyze 572 articles focused on CCRASAI from the Scopus and Web of Science databases, published between 1994 and 2022. There was an evident upward trend in CCRASAI publications during this period, with steady growth appearing after 2007. Among the States and Union Territories, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka have the highest number of published research articles. Research on CCRASAI is most concen­ trated in the southern plateau, the trans-Gangetic and middle Gangetic plains, and the Himalayan regions. The frequently used terms—’climate change impacts,’ ‘adaptation strategies,’ and ‘sus­ tainable agriculture’—in CCRASAI research emphasize the focus on analyzing the effects of CC, creating adaptation strategies, and promoting sustainable agricultural practices. 1. Introduction Climate change (CC) has emerged as a global issue, impacting food security, human health, water availability, and overall societal progress across different countries [1,2]. As agriculture relies on rainfall, temperature, and soil conditions, CC manifests in the form of monsoon irregularities, droughts, and floods, affecting agricultural productivity and farmers’ income [3].