 l The composition contains oligosaccharide, prebiotics, antioxidants/phenolic derivative enriched oleoresin and probiotic micro- flora that are individually present in the therapeutic concentrate at a concentration of 1 x 106 to 1 x 1010 CFU. l Able to survive gastric pH up to 3 hours, and can be considered as a good probiotic for use in food preparations for preventing the harmful gut pathogenic infections. l Cadalmin® MBc is capable of inhibiting intestinal pathogens and is useful for re-establishing beneficial bacteria in the body’s intestinal tract. l The efficacy of the product was compared with that of a standard drug (ViBact®). l Unique biochemical engineering techniques are adopted to ensure higher shelf-life. l Plant-based capsules are used to pack the purified and concentrated active ingredients (300 mg/capsule) to meet the dietary needs of vegetarians. Commercialization and availability l Patent application has been filed for the technology. It is scheduled for licensing during 2020. l The product will be marketed as Maribac (MBc). 9. Cadalmin® MBc – Probiotic Supplement Compiled by: Kajal Chakraborty, P. Vijayagopal and Shinoj Parappurathu Further Information: Director, ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Kochi, Kerala. Phone: +91-484-2394798 Email: director.cmfri@icar.gov.in; Website: www.cmfri.org.in Kappaphycus alvarezii 12 CIFTEQ® FucoidanEx About the product l CIFTEQ® FucoidanEx is a freeze-dried supplement, rich in high-value nutraceu- tical Fucoidan and micronutrients. It forms as an ingredient in various nutraceuticals and cosmetic products. l The product extracted from Sargassum wightii is also a source of essential micronutrients, taurine and antioxidant pigment fucoxanthin. l The product has been characterized using advanced chromatographic and mass spectrometric techniques in terms of its content of fucoidan, essential micro- elements such as zinc, iron, and calcium, water-soluble vitamins, amino acids, brown pigment fucoxanthin and taurine. l A process using green chemistry principles has been developed for the extraction of bioactive polysaccharide Fucoidan from brown seaweed with high yield. l A novel enzymatic extraction technique is used, followed by enrichment of Fucoidan using ion exchange resins. No harmful organic solvents are used for the production of the extract. l Fucoidan has been recognized as a novel food ingredient in EU and USA. l The preclinical study conducted in ICAR- CIFT showed excellent in vivo antioxidant activity and showed no signs of adverse effect even at higher doses. Commercialization and availability l The product has been licensed to M/s. Amalgam Foods Pvt. Ltd. The company has acquired the license to sell the product as a novel food ingredient in the European Union. l The company is marketing the product as an active ingredient in nutraceuticals and cosmeceuticals products 10. CIFTEQ® FucoidanEx – Dietary Supplement Compiled by: Niladri S.