 First CMS line of radish from Public sector in India developed at ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi, UP. Good combiner and high heterosis for yield, root length and root weight. March–April 2023 55 VRRAD-12 (INGR21220, Male sterile line of Radish): Second Ogura-CMS line of radish from Public Sector in India developed at ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh; robust CMS system with better combining ability and heterosis; lyrate type of leaf shape i.e. leaf morphology (leaf division incision); and develop white and non- tapering (almost blunt) roots during winter season. VRRAD-12 and its maintainer are ideally synchronous in flowering/pollination activities. Registered as Unique Germplasm by Plant Germplasm Registration Committee (PGRC), ICAR-NBPGR, New Delhi on 24th December 2021. morphology (leaf division incision); and develops white and tapering roots during winter, spring and summer seasons. VRRAD-201 and its maintainer are ideally synchronous in flowering/ pollination activities. Registered as Unique Ge r m p l a s m b y P l a n t Germplasm Registration Committee (PGRC), ICAR- NBPGR, New Delhi on 29th September 2020. In addition to these unique vegetable crops, India is also home to a variety of unique fruits and spices that are an important part of the country’s traditional cuisine, which are known for its taste, flavour, nutrition and response in biotic and abiotic stresses. One way in which such unique germplasm is utilized in vegetable breeding programs in India is through the use of landraces, or traditional varieties of vegetables that have been developed and maintained by farmers over generations. These landraces often possess unique characteristics, such as tolerance to specific diseases or abiotic stresses, which can be exploited in breeding programs. Additionally, unique germplasm may be used as a source of genetic variation for traits such as yield, fruit quality, and pest resistance. Another way that unique germplasm is utilized in vegetable breeding programs in India is through the use of wild relatives of cultivated vegetables. These wild relatives often possess valuable traits, such as disease resistance, that can be introgressed into cultivated varieties. This is done by crossing the wild relatives with the cultivated varieties to transfer the desired trait. SUMMARY The utilization of unique germplasm in vegetable breeding programs in India can lead to the development of new and improved vegetable varieties that are well- suited to the diverse agro-climatic conditions found throughout the country. This can be done by using landraces and wild relatives of cultivated vegetables as a source of genetic variation for desired traits. India is home to a wide variety of unique vegetable crops that have adapted to the specific growing conditions of different regions in the country. These unique varieties have been developed through centuries of traditional farming practices and are an important part of India’s traditional cuisine.