 Before Green Revolution, we were dependent on US for food grains. To curb hunger to produce more is not the solution but more people being involved in food production is the solution. In Punjab to produce more has led to over- exploitation and excessive use of chemical fertilisers, insecticides and pesticides and has resulted in the degradation of the soil, which decreased water-holding capacity of the soil. Rishis of the yonder days had also developed agriculture machinery for processing and storage; they also used fertilizers but all was very eco-friendly. They used cow-dung as the fertilizer. Best fertilizer can be made from the cow horn by using biodynamic method— in this method, the cow horn is placed in the cow- dung for six months after that 25 grams of the manure is mixed in 1500 litres of water and sprayed in one acre of land. Various products such as toothpaste, soap and hawan samagri are made from cow-dung. Lately, chemical-free paint is Shri Pratap Chandra Sarangi is former Minister of State for Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries and Micro Small & Medium Enterprise, Government of India. In eighties, he had started many Ekal Vidyalayas (village schools with a single teacher). 8 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series also prepared from cow-dung, which is non-toxic, have anti-bacterial and anti- fungal properties and can also protect from atomic radiations. Prali, which farmers burn and cause air pollution, can be converted into direct compost or can be used to generate power and then to compost. The Indian Agricultural Research Institute has developed a microbial bio- enzyme solution to decompose crop residue. This has resolved the issue of crop burning in North India. Water is another critical input for agriculture production. Use of drip irrigation is the most efficient water and nutrient delivery system for growing crops. Water-use efficiency through drip irrigation has increased 90 per cent and water saving by 70 per cent as compared to flood irrigation. Government has also made some policies such as “National Water Policy” to govern the planning and development of water resources and their optimum utilization. Further focus needs to be on secondary agriculture and farmers should be provided knowledge and training on value addition and processing so they can earn more by basic processing also. Swami Vivekananda once said “A nation is great or good not because of its parliament but the nation is great or good because of its people”. Key takeaways Emphasis should be more on organic farming. Farmers need to be encouraged for processing their own produce to own higher returns. 9 Sustainable Agriculture AGRICULTURE IN POST-INDEPENDENT INDIA LOOKING BACK AND FORWARD Ramesh Chand The agri-growth from 1971 to 2021 has been divided into four stages; 1. Beginning of active policy formulation, irrigation, land reforms, area expansion; 2. Revival of the growth rate after 1967; primarily driven by technology; 3.