 The model performs poorly for high yielding varieties, enhanced irrigation, improved land preparation, and late planting with no distinct patterns in adoption based on agent farm size (Fig. 6 & Table 6B). Scenario C, where all agents are assigned the social normer decision rule, performs best for the adoption of climate tolerant varieties (MPR = 1.52) and improved irrigation (MPR = 0.49) (Table 5). The MPR im­ proves with increases in farm size for improved irrigation between marginal and medium farmers (Table 6C). While the scenario overestimates the adoption rates of late planting strategy (MPR = 1.97), it explains the adoption better than Scenario A (MPR = 0.00), Scenario B (MPR = 8.08), and Scenario D (MPR = 2.99) (Table 5). The model performs poorly for high yield varieties, enhanced use of fertilizers, and improved land preparation, with no distinct patterns in land size (Fig. 6 & Table 6C). Under Scenario D, where all agents are assigned the random decision rule, the model performs well for improved irrigation (MPR = 0.99) and land preparation (MPR = 0.49), with no distinct patterns in model performance based on land size (Table 5). Overall, the model performs relatively worse for high yield varieties, climate tolerant varieties, enhanced use of fertilizers, and late planting (Table 5). Under this sce­ nario, the MPR increases with agent farm size for the adoption of high yielding varieties and enhanced fertilizers. No such patterns in agent farm size were observed for the adoption of climate tolerant varieties and late planting (Fig. 6 &Table 6D). 5. Discussion Briggs (2014) highlights that classical economics often interprets expected utility theory as either descriptive (i.e., how do people make decisions) or predictive (i.e., how models correctly predict people’s decisions). In this study, we depart from a predictive or descriptive interpretation of our model outcomes and focus on explanatory reasoning behind decision-making processes where we backcast past agricultural adaptation decisions made by farmers in northern India. We focus on identifying theory that explains the characteristics of the decision-maker and the context within which the decision is undertaken, rather than interpreting the theory in a predictive or descriptive manner. The results of the sensitivity analysis give us reasonable confidence that the model outcomes and performance assessment can be attributed mainly to the decision rules. Consequently, we can conclude that AG-ADAPT model behavior meets the research objectives of identifying the best candidate explanation to which (combination of) decision rules leads to the observed adoption of adaptation strategies. The results of scenario analysis where we explore alternative theories of decision-making disaggregated based on agent characteristics, namely farm size and adaptation strategy, enabled us to delve into alternate explanations.