 Keeping in view of the importance of training and gaps in training of the employees, ICAR has taken up following concerted steps for training and capacity building of all four categories of ICAR employees (Scientific, Technical including Drivers, Administrative including Finance and Stenographer Grades, and Skilled Support Staff). 2. Appointment of ADG (HRM) as Training Manager ICAR realized the importance of Training and Capacity Building of its employees in true sense and for the first time created a designated post of Assistant Director General (Human Resource Management) and appointed the Officer in Joint Secretary Grade in 2014 to act as Training Manager of ICAR as per National Training Policy - 2012 of GoI. The Officer was appointed with the following duties and responsibilities: ï Overall coordination, implementation, monitoring and management of training needs & policies for the Council ï Evaluate and advice on all strategic HR needs and requirements of the Council. Besides, ADG(HRM) was assigned to collaborate with DoPT, GoI from time to time for effective implementation of Training Functions in ICAR which is spread across the Countryís length and breadth with about 19, 200 employees of four different Categories. 3. Creation of HRM Unit at Headquarters The HRM Unit was created at the ICAR Headquarters in September, 2014 for strengthening and facilitating training and capacity building of Scientific, Administrative, Technical and Skilled Support Staff working in 110 ICAR-Institutes/HQs. Gradually, the Unit was strengthened with necessary staff required for effective functioning of the Unit. The Unit is effectively involved in developing the Institutionalized System of Training in ICAR; pursuing Systematic Approach to Training; formulated ICAR HRM Policy : Training 4 HRM INITIATIVES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF ICAR (2014-18) and Capacity Building; performing Training Needs Analysis (TNA) of all categories of employees; Developing Annual Training Plan (ATP) based on TNA; Design and Development of training programmes for all categories of employees; Implementation of Training Programmes for Scientific, Technical including regular Drivers, Administrative including Finance, Stenographer Grades and Skilled Support Staff; Evaluation of Trainings; Monitoring and Assessment of ATP Implementation; Impact Assessment of trainings; Developing Training Management Information System (TMIS) and Maintaining Database of trainings and trained manpower, etc. 4. Development of Institutionalized System of Training In order to have proper coordination, implementation, monitoring and management of training needs of all categories of employees of ICAR-Institutes spread across the Country, HRD Nodal Officers were nominated by respective Instituteís Directors, and attached to PME Cell. Normally, HRD Nodal Officers are Principal Scientists/Head who are quite senior in the Institute and have good understanding of the training needs of employees.