 yy One IT Expert not below Joint Secretary nominated by DG National Informatics Centre, New Delhi or one IT Expert not below Joint Secretary from Ministry of Electronics and IT, Govt. of India, New Delhi nominated by Secretary of the Department. yy Two Experts from body of registered Association / Society / Trust of Government / IT Industry, National Public / Private Institution, Private IT Firms etc. nominated by DG ICAR, New Delhi . yy Other invited Members invited from academia / industries / NGOs / as per requirement. yy Member Secretary, ADG (ICT). A Steering Committee will be constituted which will ensure implementation, monitoring and evaluation of ICT policies, roadmap and directives of the Standing Committee. The role and responsibilities of this committee are to implement policy decisions, monitoring of all ICT activities in the Council as well as in Institutes. The committee will meet twice in a year to discuss issues and latest developments including new initiatives. 6.2 ICT Steering Committee Chairman: Secretary DARE and DG, ICAR Members: yy Secretary, ICAR. yy All DDGs of the council. yy ADG (PIM, IR, TC, IP&TM). yy Director, ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi. yy Director, ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad. yy Project Director, DKMA, New Delhi. yy Three Directors of other ICAR Institutes on rotation basis with term period of two years. yy Member Secretary, ADG (ICT). yy Other Invited Members. 20 ICT-Roadmap 6.2.1 Role and Functions yy Identification and approval of new ICT initiatives to be taken up by the Council as per directives of Standing Committee. yy Identification and approval of research program for development ICT / IT tools / software / systems in areas to support agricultural research and development in the Council in the field of emerging and disruptive technologies. yy Coordination and guidance among different ICT / IT programs and programs based on emerging / disruptive IT technologies across different SMDs of the Council. yy Monitoring different ICT programs / initiatives and programs on emerging/ disruptive IT technologies at national level from time to time. yy Providing guidelines and directives for collaboration with different national and international Institutions / Organizations working in the field of ICT and disruptive technologies in IT. yy Identify and ensure resources required for implementation of national level programs in the field of emerging / disruptive technologies in IT. yy Identify and approve relevant area for capacity building in the field of IT / ICT in the Council. Powers yy Assigning role and functions to different ICAR institutes to work in a national program of importance in the field of ICT and disruptive technologies of IT. yy Allocations and monitoring of funds / budget to different projects and programs in the field of ICT and disruptive technologies in IT.