 The Pay and Accounts office is the basic Unit of Departmentalized Accounting Organization. Its main function include: (a) Pre-check and payment of all bills, including those of loans and grants-in-aid, submitted by Non-Cheque Drawing DDOs. (b) Accurate and timely payments in conformity with prescribed rules and regulations. (c) Timely realization of receipts (d) Issue of quarterly letter of credit to Cheque Drawing DDOs and post check of their Vouchers/bills. (e) Compilation of monthly accounts of receipts and expenditures made by them incorporating there with the accounts of the cheque Drawing DDOs. (f) Maintenance of GPF accounts other than merged DDO and authorization of retirement benefits. (g) Maintenance of all DDR Heads. (h) Efficient service delivery to the Ministry/ Department through banking arrangement by way of e-payment. (i) Adherence to the prescribed Accounting Standards, rules and principles. (j) Timely, accurate, comprehensive, relevant and use ful financial reporting. 6. The overall responsibilities of Departmental Accounting Organization in respect of Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare are: (a) Consolidation of monthly accounts of Ministry and its submission to the CGA. (b) Annual Appropriation Accounts. (c) Statement of Central Transactions. (d) Preparation of “Accounts at a Glance”. (e) Union Finance accounts which are submitted to the CGA, Ministry of Finance and Principal Director of Audit. (f) Payments of grants-in-aid to Grantee Institutions/ Autonomous Bodies etc. (g) Rendering technical advice to all PAOs and Ministry; if necessary in consultation with other organizations like DoPT, Ministry of Finance and CG Aetc. (h) Preparation of Receipt Budget. (i) Preparation of Pension Budget. (j) Procuring and supplying of cheque books for And on behalf of PAOs/Cheque Drawing DDOs. (k) To maintain necessary liaison with Controller General of Accounts office and to effect overall co-ordination and control in accounting matters and accredited Bank. (l) To verify and reconcile all receipts and payments made on behalf of Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare through the accredited Bank, i.e. State Bank of India. (m) To maintain accounts with Reserve Bank of India relating to Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and to reconcile the cash balances. (n) To ensure prompt payments. (o) Speedy settlement of Pension/Provident fund and other retirement benefits. (p) Internal Audit of the Ministry, subordinate and attached offices under Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and its Grantee institutions, Autonomous Bodies etc. (q) To make available accounting information to all concerned Authorities/Divisions. (r) Budget co-ordination works of Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. (s) Monitoring of New Pension Scheme and revision of pension cases from time to time. (t) Computerization of Accounts and e-payment. (u) Administrative and co-ordination function of the accounting organization.